









Home | Aresty Research Center




Skip to main content













Aresty Research Center



Search


Search





























Main menu





Toggle sub-menu





Home




About Us




Meet the Arestys




Peer Instructors




Senior Peer Instructors




Our Team




News




Spotlight





JSHS




Programs




Grants




Conference Funding




Research Funding





Research Assistant Program




Summer Science Program




LSAMP Summer Practical Research Experience (SPRE)





Aresty RURJ




Symposium




19th Annual Symposium-April 28, 2023




18th Annual Symosium Presentations




17th Annual Virtual Symposium Presentations





Resources




Due Dates & Deadlines




Events




For Students




FAQs for Students




Finding a Faculty Mentor




Poster Design and Printing





For Faculty




FAQs for Faculty




View Your Projects




Current Faculty Mentors




How to Participate




Design a Project





Undergraduate Research Council





Other Programs




Research Programs at Rutgers




Summer Research at Rutgers




For High School Students





Institutional Review Board





Support Us




Donate




Sponsorship Opportunities





Contact Us



















Previous


Pause


Next








Aresty Research Assistant presenting her research at the 2019 15th Annual Undergraduate Research Symposium. 





Aresty Peer Instructor providing information about the center during the 15th Annual Undergraduate Symposium at Livingston Student Center. 





Aresty Summer Science Research Assistant presenting her poster to judges and guests during the 2019 Poster Session. 




























News



2024-2025 Research Assistant Program Application-Now Open

We are happy to announce the 2024-2025 Research Assistant Program Application is now open from March 5, 2024 -April 15, 2024 at 11:59PM. Interested students (Freshman-Juniors) can find opportunities to support professors working on cutting-edge research in the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and arts.  The Research Assistant program is designed to make the process of joining a research project easy and…


Northern Jersey JSHS Regional Symposium - February 26, 2024

The Aresty Research Center for Undergraduates at Rutgers University- NB hosted 31 outstanding high school oral and poster STEM scholars within Northern New Jersey Region on February 26, 2024 at the Douglass Student Center. The presenters were supported by fellow teachers, classmates, and parents. We are very grateful for our Aresty Undergraduate Research Community, specifically our amazing Seniors Peer Instructors and Peer Instructors for…







Spotlight



20th Annual Aresty Undergraduate Research Symposium-April 26, 2024

Each spring, the Aresty Research Center hosts a university-wide Undergraduate Research Symposium. A celebration of scholarship and creative activity, the Symposium is a chance for undergraduates to present a paper or poster on their findings to an audience of faculty, peers, and corporate and community partners.The research presentations at the Symposium range across the sciences, social sciences, humanities, and arts. This unique event, which…


Fall 2023 Aresty Information Session Series PowerPoint

Thank you to everyone who attended one of our Fall 2023 Aresty Information Sessions. We hope you were able to learn more about our programs. research opportunities, and application process. We look forward to seeing your applications!Please see below for the PowerPoint presentation if you missed a session or would like to reflect back on the information presented. …



















Copyright © 2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, an equal access / equal opportunity, affirmative action institution. All rights reserved. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers web sites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier or Provide Feedback Form. To report technical issues with this website, contact the ITS Help Desk at 848-932-7248 or its@echo.rutgers.edu















