








Center for Women & Work (CWW) | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Center for Women & Work (CWW)

HomeFaculty, Research & EngagementCenter for Women & Work (CWW) 





Read our Latest Newsletter Support CWW 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Faculty, Research & EngagementCenter for Women & Work (CWW)Areas of Expertise
Our Services
Publications
CWW Affiliates
Supporters
Contact CWW
CWW Events
CWW In the News
Center for Women and Work 30th Anniversary Celebration
Child Care Research Collaborative

 















 




Learn More about our 30th Anniversary Celebration 






Latest Report

 





UNA MANO AMIGA EN ESTE PAIS
(A Helping Hand in This Country):
The Role of Hispanic Women's Resource Centers in the Employment and Economic Development of Latina Immigrants in New Jersey 
March 2023
> View the report
 

 






 







Center for Women and Work Fact Sheet:
Unpacking the Latina Pay Gap
> View the fact sheet

 




Read our Latest Newsletter 





Mission
The Center for Women and Work is a leader in research, education, and programs that promote economic and social equity for women workers, their families, and their communities.
As part of its multi-faceted research and policy work, the School of Management and Labor Relations' Center for Women and Work (CWW):

Addresses women's advancement in the workplace
Conducts cutting-edge research on successful public and workplace policies
Provides technical assistance and programs to educators, industry, and governments
Engages issues that directly affect the living standards of New Jersey's and the nation's working families


Areas of Expertise

 




Equity and Diversity Education Women's Leadership & Advancement Working Families 







Black Workers in New Jersey during the Pandemic: Occupational Crowding and Disparate Impacts on Health and Work
> View the report 

 






 







Center for Women and Work Fact Sheet:
NJFLA Coverage Gaps: Who has job protection under NJFLA (and who is left behind)?
April 2022
> View the fact sheet

 






 









Tweets by RUWomenandWork 
 




















Contact Us
For Press Inquiries, contact
Steve Flamisch: 
steve.flamisch@rutgers.edu

 




Request More Information 







Debra Lancaster
CWW Executive Director
 Email

Yana van der Meulen Rodgers
CWW Faculty Director
Email

Glenda Gracia-Rivera
Director of Professional Development and Training
 Email

Ludine Daux
Senior Program Coordinator
 Email

Follow us:
  

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


