








DEI In the News: SMLR’s Faculty and Staff Share their Research and Expertise | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations


























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




DEI In the News: SMLR’s Faculty and Staff Share their Research and Expertise

HomeNews & EventsDEI In the News: SMLR’s Faculty and Staff Share their Research and Expertise 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 











Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations faculty and staff are sharing their expertise on racism at work, the power of police unions, and the nationwide protests.

 







Enter a keyword, name, publication, and/or date range to search for SMLR experts in the news!

 






Filter News 







Start date 

Date 





End date 

Date 




 



            Search Keywords...          















 





 




Women's History Month: Marilyn Sneiderman's history in the labor movement 

America’s Work Force Union Podcast features an interview with Marilyn Sneiderman of the Center for Innovation in Worker Organization.


Wednesday, March 6, 2024 

      America’s Work Force Union Podcast    





Free financial education program launches for Newark women 

Patch runs Mayor Ras Baraka’s press release about the Newark Women Moving Forward financial initiative. A study by the Center for Women and Work is cited.


Monday, March 4, 2024 

      ​Patch    





The most important labor story right now is in Minnesota—it might be the model we all need 

In These Times reports on a Bargaining for the Common Good campaign in Minnesota, quoting Marilyn Sneiderman of the Center for Innovation in Worker Organization.


Saturday, March 2, 2024 

      In These Times    





New Jersey's domestic workers gain new protections 

Rutgers Today publishes a Q&A with Debra Lancaster of the Center for Women and Work and Jenifer Garcia Pelaez ’21, an organizer at the worker center New Labor.


Thursday, February 22, 2024 

      Rutgers Today    





Estudio revela sumas exorbitantes de robo de salario a casi cien mil trabajadores en Nuevo México 

Telemundo Nuevo México interviews Jake Barnes about a workplace justice lab@RU study, which finds that New Mexico workers lost $300 million to minimum wage theft in 2021-22.


Wednesday, February 7, 2024 

      Telemundo Nuevo México    





Access Week, a series of equity and awareness events, begins Feb. 19 

Rutgers Today reports Divon Pender, who earned a degree in Human Resource Management at SMLR, will be the keynote speaker at a research symposium.


Tuesday, February 6, 2024 

      Rutgers Today    





Gig driving was a glimmer of hope for many people with disabilities — but for some, it's a dead end. 

Business Insider reports many people with disabilities are driving for Uber and Lyft, quoting Douglas Kruse and Lisa Schur of the Program for Disability Research.


Sunday, January 28, 2024 

      Business Insider     





Private equity is starting to share with workers, without taking a financial hit 

The New York Times reports on KKR’s Ownership Works, quoting Joseph Blasi and citing data from the Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing.


Sunday, January 28, 2024 

      The New York Times    





Saskatchewan teacher strike: It's about bargaining for the common good 

The Conversation publishes an article about Saskatchewan Teachers’ Federation members going on strike. The Center for Innovation in Worker Organization is cited.


Tuesday, January 16, 2024 

      The Conversation    





Domestic workers celebrate passage of bill granting them new labor protections 

New Jersey Monitor reports the New Jersey Legislature has passed the Domestic Workers’ Bill of Rights. The story cites a study by the Center for Women and Work.


Tuesday, January 9, 2024 

      New Jersey Monitor    



Pages1
2
3
4
…
of
20
next
last

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


