








Online Professional Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Online Professional Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER)

HomeAcademic ProgramsGraduate ProgramsOnline Professional Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) 





Apply Now Request More Information Register for a Virtual Info Session 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Graduate ProgramsOnline Professional Master's in Labor and Employment RelationsOnline MLER Courses
Online MLER Faculty
Frequently Asked Questions
Request More Information

 














 





Click Here to Register for a Virtual Information Session

 





Program Overview
This professional program is designed for working adults with a demonstrated interest in either labor/social justice, or managing employees well. MLER graduates have a variety of intellectual interests and career objectives. With our degree, you might:

Add labor relations expertise to existing expertise in human resources
Build a career as a union professional
Advance in a government agency like the EEOC or the NLRB
Lead a community or non-profit organization
Explore intellectually how work is changing today

This diversity of outcomes is enhanced by the many choices available to our students.  You will take 4 required courses, 4 electives, and 4 courses chosen from categories of needed competency, like workforce diversity.
If you wish to work on the “employer side,” we expect that you will have four years of work experience or more.  On the other hand, those who want to work for unions, government, or employee advocacy organizations may demonstrate prior interest in other ways than work experience.

 





VIDEO HIGHLIGHTS:
Here's what MLER students are saying

 






Fully Online
This professional program is 100% online and is designed for working professionals enrolled part-time – we encourage you to start with one or two courses per semester at the beginning and then take more if you can handle that.  Courses are available year-round and typically are asynchronous – that is, you do not need to be online on a specific day/time.  Usually you will have activities to do or assignments due each week.
Students in your online courses will be both from this program and our regular MLER program – if you want to take in-person courses as well as online courses, please apply to the regular MLER program. 

Flexible Schedule
Each semester, you will be able to choose from about 6 different online courses.  Degree completion depends on how many courses you take per semester.

GRE or GMAT Not Required
Admission is based on your college grades, your recommendations, your professional career, and/or your volunteer/political activities in the area of social justice.  We reserve the right to suggest that taking one of these exams and doing well would improve your chance of admission but that is an unusual occurrence.

Same Cost for Out-of-State and In-State Students
Tuition and fees for this program are the same for both types of students, with rates that are significantly lower for out of state students, but somewhat higher for in-state students than our regular MLER program. Tuition and fees are the same as for the Professional MHRM Online program.

High-Quality Courses
All our online courses are equivalent in quality and learning objectives to the in-person courses that we teach. The courses have been developed to ensure excellence in instructional design. 

Top-Ranked University/School
Rutgers University–New Brunswick ranks as the #1 public university in New Jersey and the #1 public university in the northeast, according to U.S. News & World Report. The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations itself ranks among the top 3 schools of its type in the world, along with Cornell University and the London School of Economics.

Terrific Faculty
Our faculty consists of leading scholars and professionals in the field of labor and employment relations. Faculty come from the disciplines of law, sociology, economics, history, business, and psychology, as well as employment relations itself. They have broad expertise and they provide an exceptional online learning experience. Courses allow you to interact with faculty and network with other students, along with opportunities to apply knowledge to real-world work situations.

A Career-smart Choice 
This master’s degree will position you to advance directly in your chosen field or to switch careers. You may utilize SMLR Career Services, the school's own career center with its staff of dedicated professionals who offer job search resources and career counseling services.

 





Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Our academic programs and admissions processes reflect our commitment to be a welcoming place that values and promotes diversity, ensures equitable access to all opportunities, and provides an affirming and inclusive environment for all students, faculty, and staff.
 





Questions?
Complete the form below to receive more information about the Online Master’s in Labor and Employment Relations program. We look forward to answering your questions!


 











Contact Us

Francis Ryan
Director, Master of Labor and Employment Relations Program
Email
848-932-1748

Ann Marie Fiorella-Mullen
Student Counselor
Email
848-932-5582

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


