








Bachelor's Degree in Human Resource Management | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Bachelor's Degree in Human Resource Management

HomeAcademic ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degree in Human Resource Management 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Undergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degree in Human Resource ManagementNew HRM Program Requirements
How to Declare the HRM Major
Course Descriptions
Course Schedule and Syllabi
HRM Minor
Careers in HRM
SMLR Learning Objectives
Internships and Independent Study in Human Resources
Departmental Honors
Master's Advantage Plan (MAP)
FAQs
Scholarships
HRM Undergraduate Faculty
HRM Undergraduate Alumni Spotlights
RU SHRM Undergraduate Chapter

 














 





SMLR's Human Resource Management (HRM) programs feature cutting-edge research and are taught by leading faculty in the field of human resource management. Participants will have numerous opportunities to explore the relationship between HR strategy and business success. Gain the leadership skills needed to shape the workplace in today's global business environment.
The bachelor's degree program in human resource management is a multidisciplinary major that draws heavily from business strategy, psychology, economics, and sociology. Students will gain exposure to a broad range of HR topics, gain marketable business skills without a business degree, and are taught current HR strategies by top faculty in the field with genuine interest in students' success. Participants also have the option to continue their studies through SMLR's Masters’ Advantage Plan.

 









Meet Our HRM Faculty Careers in HRM 





Key Subject Areas

 






Intro to Human Resource Management
Talent Acquisition 
Training and Development
Compensation and Rewards
Global HRM 
Career Management
HRM & Benefits
HRM & Finance 

 

 








RU SHRM Undergraduate Chapter Meet Our HRM Alumni 





Special Topics in HRM

 






Employee Ownership & Group Incentives
Ethics & HRM
Future of Work & Internet Companies
HRM & Organizational Behavior
Managing 21st Century Workforce
Diversity and Inclusion
Leadership Development
Conflict Management
Social Media


 










Where Are They Now?

 









Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read More







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more




 





Request More Information
Please complete the form below to receive more information about the Rutgers bachelor's degree program in Human Resource Management. We look forward to answering your questions!

 





 










Request More information Request a Virtual Appointment 





Related Links
SMLR Career Services
James B. Carey Library
Master's in HRM Program
Department of Human Resource Management

 





Contact Us

Shuenn "Grace" Tien
Student Counselor
Email

Joy Montuoro
Student Counselor
Email

Ryan Greenbaum
Director
Email

 






 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 



