








Alumni | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Alumni

HomeAbout SMLRAlumni 




 



  Explore This Section 

Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
AlumniUpcoming SMLRAA Events
March 2023 SMLRAA Networking Event Recap
Past Events

Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 













The SMLR Alumni & Friends Association

Who We Are
Our alumni association is a community of alumni, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR. Contact us at smlralumni@rutgersalumni.org.

Our activities:

Sponsor free educational programs, led by faculty and other leaders in the field.
Host networking events.
Actively support SMLR’s mentoring program for graduate students. This program is offered through our Mentoring Network and comprised of mentors from our alumni community and Rutgers University Society of Human Resource Management (RU SHRM).
Endowed scholarship to assist future SMLR students financially in their academic endeavors.

Interested in learning more?

 




Complete our SMLRAA Interest Form 






Annual Appreciation of Continuous Service Award

Recognize those who give back to the SMLR Alumni Association! The Annual Appreciation of Continuous Service award recognizes volunteerism and significant participation and contribution by an individual with impact to SMLR, the SMLR Alumni Association and/or Rutgers University as a whole.
Learn More & Nominate an Individual
> bit.ly/SMLRAA_nomination
Nominations due by March 1, 2024.
Any questions, please email smlralumni@rutgersalumni.org

 






SMLR Alumni Association Leadership
(Effective July 1, 2023, terms ending June 30, 2025)




Officers


Members at large






Melissa Daniel, MLER ’01
			Chairperson
Tracy Ng, BAHRM '15
			President
Samantha Castro, BAHRM '19
			Vice President of Events & Programs
Catherine Mobilian, MHRM ‘99
			Vice President

Roxy Mao, BA HRM '19
			Treasurer
Caroline Su, BA HRM '20
			Secretary
Ivonne Medrano
			Events Chair #1
Sandy McLachlan
			Events Chair #2
Nicole Skrable
			Events Chair #3
Michael Bartolomei
			Engagement Chair
Pallavi Jalakam
			Communications Chair
 
 
 


Cynthia Abbott, MSW ’03
Keith Bogen, MHRM ‘93
Rashmi Deo, MLER, MHRM ’11
Marc Daupherin, MLER ’19
Nisha Patwardhan, MHRM '20
Ayushi Sahai, MHRM '17
Sangeetha Subramanian




 

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


