








SMLR Learning Objectives | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Learning Objectives

HomeAbout SMLRSMLR Learning Objectives 




 



  Explore This Section 

Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 













Three Core Areas for Success in SMLR
The curriculum in the programs within SMLR focus on different areas (i.e., HRM, LSER) and levels of study (ie. undergraduate, master’s, Ph.D.).  Across these programs, we strive to advance students' cognitive skills and processes, their knowledge of theory and application, and develop their professional skills.
Areas include:

Cognitive Skills and Processes
Knowledge of Theory, Practice, and Application 
Professional Development


 






Cognitive Skills and Processes
The cognitive skills and process areas reflect the goal for SMLR programs to help students develop skills central to lifelong learning and participation in society and the workplace. 

 






        I) Written & Oral Communication       



Communicate effectively at a level and in modes appropriate to an entry-level professional.

Communicate complex ideas effectively, in standard written English
Analyze and synthesize information and ideas from multiple sources to generate new insights
Produce quality research papers with proper convention of attribution/citation
Produce high quality executive summaries
Make an argument using contemporary and/or historical evidence
Present ideas and arguments in a logical and effective way

 




        II) Quantitative, Qualitative, and Analytical Skills       



Apply appropriate quantitative and qualitative methods for research workplace issues.

Formulate, evaluate, and communicate conclusions and inferences from quantitative information
Apply quantitative methods to analyze data for HR decision making including cost-benefit analyses, ROI, etc. (HRM)
Apply qualitative methods appropriately, alone and in combination with quantitative methods

 




        III) Research Skills       



Demonstrate an ability to collect, analyze and synthesize information to make logical and informed decisions impacting the workplace.  Use evidence to evaluate hypotheses, theories and approaches to workplace issues.

Employ current technologies to access information, to conduct research, and to communicate findings
Analyze and synthesize information and ideas from multiple sources to generate new insights
Assess and critique relevant evidence and research findings
Access high-quality historical, qualitative, and quantitative evidence or research
Use evidence-based analysis to appraise the validity of various hypotheses, theories, and approaches to workplace issues

 


 






Knowledge of Theory, Practice and Application
The knowledge of theory and application area reflects the goal for SMLR programs to ensure that students learn the key theoretical and foundation areas of study in their domains and realize opportunities to apply that knowledge to practice situations.

 






        IV) Theoretical Perspectives       



Demonstrate an understanding of relevant theories and apply them given the background context of a particular work situation.

Demonstrate an understanding of the practical perspectives, theories and concepts in their field of study
Evaluate and apply theories from social science disciplines to workplace issues

 




        V) Understanding Context       



Evaluate the context of workplace issues, public policies, and management decisions.

Analyze the degree to which forms of human difference shape a person’s experience of and perspectives on work
Analyze a contemporary global issue in their field from a multi-disciplinary and intersectional perspective
Analyze issues related to business strategies, organizational structures, and work systems
Analyze issues of social justice related to work across local and global contexts (LSER)
Analyze issues related to the selection, motivation, and development of talent in a local and global context (HRM)

 




        VI) Application       



Demonstrate an understanding of how to apply knowledge necessary for effective work performance.

Apply concepts and substantive institutional knowledge, to understanding contemporary developments related to work
Understand the legal, regulatory and ethical issues related to their field
Develop human resource management (HRM) functional capabilities used to select, motivate, and develop workers
Understand the internal and external alignment and measurement of human resource practices (HRM)

 


 






Professional Development

 






        VII) Professional Development      



Demonstrate an ability to interact with and influence others in a professional manner, and to effectively present ideas and recommendations.

Develop effective presentation skills appropriate for different settings and audiences
Develop career management skills to navigate one’s career
Develop capabilities to work and lead in a multicultural and diverse environment
Work productively in teams, in social networks, and on an individual basis
Develop cultural agility competencies
Demonstrate lifelong personal & professional development skills

 


 






SMLR Learning Objectives by Academic Program

 









HRM Undergraduate Learning Objectives MHRM Learning Objectives 








LSER Undergraduate Learning Objectives MLER Learning Objectives 



















 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


