








Program for Disability Research | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Program for Disability Research

HomeFaculty, Research & EngagementProgram for Disability Research 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Faculty, Research & EngagementProgram for Disability ResearchOverviews of Employment Policy, Barriers, and Facilitators
Employment Gaps and Projections
Telework
Pay Gaps
Workplace Disparities, Accommodations, and Corporate Culture
Disability and Unions
Contingent and Part-time Work
Voter Turnout and Voting Accessibility
Political Participation
In the News

 













Mission
The Program for Disability Research conducts and coordinates research on the economic, social, and political inclusion of people with disabilities. We focus on two broad areas: employment and political participation of people with disabilities.
Our research has been sponsored by several federal agencies:  the U.S. Department of Labor, the U.S. Department of Education's National Institute of Disability and Rehabilitation Research, and the National Council on Disability. We have worked with several partners, including:

Syracuse University, Burton Blatt Institute
Cornell University, Employment and Disability Institute
Rutgers University, Heldrich Center for Workforce Development


 





Presentation Video 
Rutgers Research in Focus: Advancing Disability Employment
Watch the video replay of the hybrid seminar on disability employment research held on Tuesday, October 24, 2023. The session featured speakers from the School of Management and Labor Relations and Rutgers Business School.

 





Publications and Presentations


Testimony by Lisa Schur before the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions (HELP), Hearing on "Lessons Learned from COVID-19: Highlighting Innovations, Maximizing Inclusive Practices and Overcoming Barriers to Employment for People with Disabilities," February 8, 2022
Complete Schur Testimony | Testimony Summary | View the Hearing Replay


Overview

"The SMLR Program for Disability Research: Presentation to SMLR State Advisory Council, June 16, 2021"

Employment

Overviews of employment policy, barriers, and facilitators
Employment gaps and projections
Telework
Pay gaps
Workplace disparities, accommodations, and corporate culture
Disability and unions
Contingent and part-time work
Job preferences
Worker displacement

Political Participation

Voter turnout and voting accessibility
Political participation in general

Access in the Sharing Economy

“No Room at the Inn?  Disability Access in the New Sharing Economy,” Academy of Management Discoveries, August 2020, 6(2): 176-205.  By Mason Ameri, Sean Rogers, Lisa Schur, and Douglas Kruse.

Book
People with Disabilities: Sidelined or Mainstreamed? by Lisa Schur, Douglas Kruse, and Peter Blanck

News
PBS NewsHour: "Why is Job Opportunity Still Lagging for People with Disabilities?"
 

 
























Request More information 





Contact Us

Doug Kruse
Director
Email
 

Lisa Schur
Director
Email

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


