








Childcare Still Scarce for Some New Jersey Families | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Info

HomeNews & EventsSMLR NewsSMLR Info 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 






Childcare Still Scarce for Some New Jersey Families
Wednesday, May 10, 2023
 







PISCATAWAY, N.J. – The White House and the World Health Organization have declared an end to the COVID-19 emergency, but many New Jersey families are still dealing with a lingering effect. A new report by the Rutgers Center for Women and Work, supported by the New Jersey State Policy Lab, finds the Garden State’s childcare infrastructure has not returned to pre-pandemic levels. South Jersey faces some of the greatest challenges.
“Accessing and affording high quality childcare is far too challenging for New Jersey families,” said Debra Lancaster, executive director of the Rutgers Center for Women and Work and co-author of the report. “The industry has faced staffing and retention issues for years, and the pandemic made it worse. Without serious public investment that supports equitable access to high quality care and compensates childcare workers for their skills and expertise, we will continue to see instability in the field and families struggling to find care and make ends meet.”
Rutgers researchers analyzed more than 10 years of federal and state data to compile their nearly 100-page report on New Jersey’s childcare landscape. They found:

Growing Need: More moms and dads are working, creating a need for more childcare. The share of kids under age 6 with all available parents in the labor force jumped from 63% in 2010 to 69% in 2020. Gloucester (78%) and Atlantic (77%) counties top the list.
Hard Choices: A quarter of families (24%) experienced a childcare disruption during the pandemic, forcing many parents to cut their hours (23%) or quit their job (8%). Black, Hispanic, LGBTQ+, low-income, and single parents had the hardest time finding care. 
Fewer Options: Center-based childcare capacity has recovered in New Jersey, but home-based childcare capacity is still down. This is especially challenging for immigrants and low-income families, who rely on the lower cost and flexibility of home-based care.
Labor Shortage: The state's childcare workforce remains “substantially below its pre-pandemic levels,” even while other industries have rebounded. Salem County has seen the slowest recovery in its childcare workforce, followed by Gloucester County.
Low Pay: Childcare workers struggle with low wages. Those with a bachelor’s degree or higher earn just a fraction (33%) of what their counterparts make in the private sector, giving them little incentive to stay in the field. And while the majority of childcare workers are women (93%), they earn just 75 cents on the dollar compared to male co-workers.

“We are proud to release this report with the Center for Women and Work today,” said Elizabeth Cooner, executive director of the New Jersey State Policy Lab. “We believe this research provides vital insight into the current state of childcare for families all across New Jersey, as well as valuable policy recommendations going forward.”
The report’s authors analyzed prior research in the field to formulate “policy prescriptions” for improving New Jersey’s childcare supply. They recommend: 

Improving wages and benefits for childcare workers;
Revamping care subsidy pay structures;
Reducing or providing support for regulatory burdens placed on providers;
Boosting the care worker pipeline; 
Incentivizing education among care providers;
Expanding care through employer- and government-sponsored care centers; and
Extending paid parental leave programs.

The report also outlines recommendations to make it easier for New Jersey families to get help paying for childcare. They include:

Streamlining the application process by enabling parents to sign up for childcare subsidies when they apply for NJ FamilyCare and NJ SNAP benefits;
Resetting eligibility thresholds so that parents do not lose their subsidies when their income increases by a modest amount;
Administering the subsidy program by awarding contracts and grants to childcare providers, rather than giving vouchers to parents; and 
Considering childcare tax credits and publicly provided childcare.

Press Contact
Steve Flamisch
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
848.252.9011 (cell)
steve.flamisch@smlr.rutgers.edu
About the Report
The Status of New Jersey’s Childcare Infrastructure: A Focus on Policy Prescriptions, Data Collection, and Community Needs is co-authored by Sarah Small, Debra Lancaster, Jocelyn Fischer, and Yana Rodgers of the Rutgers Center for Women and Work. The New Jersey State Policy Lab supported and published the report. The Policy Lab is funded by the New Jersey Office of the Secretary of Higher Education (OSHE), and the contents of this report do not necessarily represent the policy or endorsement of OSHE or the State of New Jersey.
About Us
The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is the world’s leading source of expertise on managing and representing workers, designing effective organizations, and building strong employment relationships. 
SMLR’s Center for Women and Work (CWW) engages in research, education, and programming that promotes economic and social equity for women workers, their families, and communities. 
The New Jersey State Policy Lab is an independent research center operated by the Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy and the School of Public Affairs and Administration at Rutgers University.
###
 

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


