








Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM)

HomeAcademic ProgramsGraduate ProgramsMaster's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) 





Apply Now Request a Virtual Appointment Register for a Virtual Open House 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Graduate ProgramsMaster's in Human Resource ManagementMHRM Application Process
Courses
Course Schedule & Syllabi
A STEM Designated Master's Program
Register for a Virtual Open House
Learning Objectives
Scholarships
HR Analytics Course Track
MHRM Alumni Spotlights
MHRM Frequently Asked Questions
RU SHRM Graduate Chapter
Rutgers MHRM Students Awarded SHRM Scholarships

 











Rutgers' MHRM program is internationally renowned for its research and teaching in the areas of strategic human resource management, global employment strategies, new approaches to worker involvement, and the transformation of work.

 







Register for an Upcoming Virtual Open House

 





A Top-Tier Ranked STEM-Designated Graduate HR Program
Did you know that a HR manager can earn a base salary of $88,000 and is included among Glassdoor's 10 Best Jobs in America report? The Rutgers MHRM program has a 96% placement rate. 
Through SMLR's Master of Human Resource Management (MHRM) degree, you will gain the key, professional skills needed to become an organizational leader.
 
The Rutgers MHRM is a STEM master's program, which signals that our program provides the rigor and analytic framework underscoring the sciences and technology. This designation offers our students a competitive advantage with potential employers. 

 





Latest News:
SMLR HRM Student Teams Excel Through Annual Case Competition
On December 9, 2022, the three teams comprised of talented Rutgers SMLR Human Resource Management students from a variety of personal and professional backgrounds came together to deliver their comprehensive solutions during the Fall 2022 Jim Chelius Case Competition sponsored by WCG.
> Read more about the Fall 2022 case competition

 





Key Features of our MHRM Program

 











Top Pay
$55K – $110K+ 
 

 






Funding
Scholarships / Assistantships 

 










Top Employers
Honeywell • IBM • GE
Many others

 






Great Location
NYC • NJ • Philadelphia
 

 










A Career Escalator
Build your career
and your network

 






HR Knowledge
Skill building and latest trends

 










Our Commitment to Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Our academic programs and admissions processes reflect our commitment to be a welcoming place that values and promotes diversity, ensures equitable access to all opportunities, and provides an affirming and inclusive environment for all students, faculty, and staff.
 





MHRM Alumni Spotlight
Click below to learn where some of our graduates are now.

 









Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Learn more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Read more







Meet Our Alumni
 Learn More




 






What You Can Do With a Human Resources Degree
U.S. News and World Report interviewed Rutgers HRM Department Chair Scott Seibert about the value and versatility of a degree in HRM, noting top-level HR executives can earn as much as $300,000 plus stock options and other benefits. Read more

 






Convenient Location Near Major Cities, Cultural Centers, & Employers
Rutgers is conveniently located to major east coast metropolitan cities, diverse cultural centers, and corporate employers. We leverage our locale to offer courses off campus in partnership with a variety of organizations.  

 






 


 






Competitive Internships Leading to an HR Career: A True Career
Interested in on-site experience? 
Paid internships are available and are strongly recommended for students without prior experience in HRM. These opportunities have resulted in robust careers for many of our graduates.
Each year, our students are placed in esteemed organizations. SMLR alumni are employed in leading corporate, government, and nonprofit organizations around the globe, including: GE, IBM, Johnson & Johnson, PepsiCo, Lockheed Martin and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.
In response to growing demand for HR professionals steeped in analytics, we have launched an exclusive cutting-edge concentration in HR Analytics. 

 






Top Ranking Faculty With Applicable Research For Today's Practitioners 
Our faculty have the most citations per publications among peers, according to Academic Analytics.
You will be able to pull from our faculty's research, which are applicable to today's workers. You'll learn how to strategically align employees with business objectives and spearhead organizational goals. Our faculty members are also frequently mentioned in the press and quoted as experts on the latest trends in the rapidly changing field of HR. 

 






Networking Opportunities With Senior HR Professionals
You will have the opportunity to join the award-winning Rutgers Society of Human Resource Management (RU SHRM) graduate chapter. RU SHRM is a student unit of the national Society for Human Resource Management—the world's largest association devoted to human resource management, representing more than 200,000 individual members. 
The graduate chapter has received the 2020 - 2021 Outstanding Student Chapter Award, a national recognition, for the eleventh time in twelve years. Among its achievements, RU SHRM organizes an annual conference attended by more than 200 senior, HR professionals in top corporations. 
We also compete favorably in Big Ten graduate case competitions. These competitions provide outstanding HR professional development experiences and invaluable networking opportunities. Are you ready to join us?​

 






Watch as one of our graduates explains describes her experiences in Rutgers SMLR's MHRM Program.

 






 


 





Questions?
Complete the form below to receive more information about the Rutgers Master's in Human Resource Management program. We look forward to answering your questions!


 






 










Request More information SMLR Career Services 





Related Links
Human Resource Management (HRM) Department
SMLR Career Services
James B. Carey Library
RU SHRM Graduate Chapter

 





Contact Us

Dave Ferio
Director
Email

Rebecca Tinkham
Student Counselor
Email

Dolores Tomaro Belloff
Administrative Assistant
Email

Megan Frederick
MHRM Prospective Student Outreach
Email

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 



