








SMLR Launches 'Shares Laboratory' to Study and Track Equity Compensation | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Info

HomeNews & EventsSMLR Info 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 






SMLR Launches 'Shares Laboratory' to Study and Track Equity Compensation
Tuesday, Apr 18, 2023
 







PISCATAWAY, N.J. – The Rutgers Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing today announced the nation’s first academic research initiative dedicated to equity compensation. The Shares Laboratory will conduct research and policy analysis on company stock, stock options, employee stock purchase plans, and other shares in the workplace.
“A huge number of Americans receive equity compensation,” said Bill Castellano, a Professor in the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations and Co-Leader of the Shares Laboratory. “There are many individual studies on its impact, but there’s never been a dedicated research program until now. The Shares Lab gives equity compensation an address – a place in higher education where policy, practice, and impact will be closely monitored.”
About a quarter of all private sector employees hold company stock or stock options as part of their compensation package, totaling about 26.3 million Americans. The Shares Lab will advance understanding of shares by:

Monitoring the growth of equity compensation and its role in the economy;
Analyzing federal policies relating to stock, stock options, and other shares;
Conducting scholarly research on equity compensation in all its forms; 
Proposing path-breaking innovations to extend shares to more employees; and
Predicting how changes in equity access will affect different parts of the economy.

The Shares Lab will be the Institute’s flagship “big data” program, monitoring a rich array of government databases, public records, and private surveys. Its reports will overnight become the gold standard for basic research on equity compensation. In addition, the Lab has created a model of the U.S. economy that breaks down the labor force by industry, workplace practices, equity access, income, wealth, and personal characteristics. This model will enable researchers to conduct experiments on critical questions.
“We know there are gender and racial gaps in equity compensation,” said Douglas Kruse, a Distinguished Professor in the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations and Co-Leader of the Shares Laboratory. “By using the model, we hope to learn which policy changes would extend shares to more women and people of color. We also hope to investigate how equity shares affect middle class incomes and wealth, among other key questions.”
Kruse is a former Senior Economist at the White House Council of Economic Advisers under President Barack Obama.
Bank of America, Computershare, Fidelity Investments, and Paypal are the initial supporters of the Shares Laboratory’s research effort. Google.org provided a major donation to support the collection of 2022 data. The Aspen Institute’s Economic Opportunities Program, the Employee Ownership Foundation, the Global Equity Organization, and the National Center for Employee Ownership will help to disseminate the reports.
“The Lab will provide the most objective analysis of equity compensation trends and will identify problems and opportunities in this field,” said Joo Hun Han, a Research Fellow in the Rutgers Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing and Co-Leader of the Shares Laboratory. “By engaging with practitioners, we hope to accelerate the impact of our research and propose innovations in equity compensation.”
Press Contact
Steve Flamisch
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
848.252.9011 (cell)
steve.flamisch@smlr.rutgers.edu
About the School
The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is the world’s leading source of expertise on managing and representing workers, designing effective organizations, and building strong employment relationships. 
About the Institute
SMLR’s Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing conducts empirical research, analyzes policy, and sponsors the leading global fellowship program and academic conferences in the field. Joseph Blasi, the J. Robert Beyster Distinguished Professor, serves as the Institute’s Director.
The Institute also manages a program to help college professors teach about these subjects (The Curriculum Library for Employee Ownership) and a technical assistance center (The NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership). One recent initiative (The Employee Ownership Online Education Program), sponsored by the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, features free online videos to help retiring business owners sell to their employees.
###
 

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


