








SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement

HomeNews & EventsSMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary CommencementCelebrating the SMLR Class of 2023
Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2022
Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2021
Graduate Celebration for the Class of 2020 and 2021

 














 






SAVE THE DATE
School of Management and Labor Relations
Convocation
Wednesday, May 15, 2024
10:00am ET
Jersey Mike's Arena

 





Information about SMLR's Convocation Ceremony
Our school convocation will honor all SMLR undergraduate and graduate students earning any of the following degrees in January, May or August 2024:  

Bachelor of Arts in Human Resource Management (BA HRM) *
Bachelor of Arts in Labor Studies and Employment Relations (BA LSER) *
Bachelor of Science in Labor and Employment Relations (BS LER)
Master of Human Resource Management (MHRM)
Master of Labor and Employment Relations (MLER)
PhD in Industrial Relations and Human Resources

* BA degrees are awarded by Rutgers School of Arts and Sciences and our majors are recognized at SMLR’s Convocation.

Note: Undergraduate students who need 12 credits or less to graduate and plan to enroll in the Summer 2024 session to complete these credits may be included in SMLR’s Convocation as expected August 2024 graduates. Inclusion in the convocation ceremony should not be construed as verification of graduation.

 






        What's the Difference Between SMLR Convocation and Commencement?      



The SMLR Convocation will be held Wednesday, May 15th at 10:00am in Jersey Mike's Arena. During this school-specific ceremony, each individual graduate of the School of Management and Labor Relations will have their name called as they walk across the stage. Watch the video of last year's SMLR Convocation to see an example of our ceremony.

The 258th Anniversary Commencement will be held Sunday, May 12th in SHI Stadium and celebrates all members of the Class of 2024 from Rutgers–New Brunswick and Rutgers Health at one large event. Details about Commencement can be found here: commencement.rutgers.edu. No individual student names are called.
 




        Are you an SAS Student with a SMLR Major?      



Undergraduate students in the School of Arts and Sciences (SAS) majoring in Human Resource Management or Labor Studies & Employment Relations will be individually recognized at the SMLR convocation ceremony on Wednesday, May 15th, but you are eligible to attend one of the SAS ceremonies as well. You can attend both!
 


 






Important Student Information & Steps to Graduate

 






        For ALL Students - Order Your Cap & Gown (Regalia)       



Academic regalia (cap and gown) for the 2024 School of Management and Labor Relations Convocation and the 258th Anniversary Commencement ceremonies is available for online purchase now through March 31 via https://rutgersnbu.shopoakhalli.com/purchasewizard/Welcome. 
 
Online orders offer these delivery options:

Ship to store for no extra charge. Must order for ship to store by February 29 for pick up at Barnes & Noble starting April 4.
Ship to home for an additional delivery charge. Deadline to order with ship to home option is March 31.

Purchase regalia in-store OR pick up online orders at Barnes & Noble on Somerset Street beginning April 4.
 
Grad Fair will be held at Barnes & Noble on April 4 & 5 from 10am-6pm. 
Join in the festivities, come for a complimentary professional headshot, and meet with representatives for purchasing class rings, diploma frames, personalized announcements and more!
 




        For UNDERGRADUATE Students      



Step 1: Check your graduation date
Please check your graduation date to be sure it accurately reflects your degree completion through Degree Navigator. When you log in, you can see the date at the top right of the page in the box where your name, RUID, and NetID are listed. 
If you need to change your graduation date and are a SMLR student (Bachelor of Science in Labor and Employment Relations), complete this form. If you are a School of Arts and Sciences (SAS) student (Bachelor of Arts, Human Resource Management major or Labor Studies and Employment Relations major), please contact your advisor at SAS Advising and Academic Services.  

Step 2: Apply for your diploma
Don't forget to apply for your diploma as soon as possible for either May 2024 or August 2024. All students must complete this online process to graduate. May graduates have until May 15th to apply for their diploma. August graduates can complete the diploma application between April 15 – August 15. Click here to view all University deadlines for submission. 
Please note: All 2024 Graduates wishing to have their name included in the SMLR Convocation program must have the correct graduation date on their record by April 1 regardless of their graduation month.

Step 3: Clear any financial obligations
To learn more about financial holds and loan exit counseling, visit the Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashier Services website. Students will not receive their diploma until all financial holds are cleared.

Information about honor awards

Departmental Honors 
Bachelor students of the Human Resource Management program, Labor Studies and Employment Relations program, and Labor and Employment Relations program who achieve a 3.70 GPA or higher for coursework within their major will receive an excellence pin and a certificate upon graduation.
Latin Honors
The baccalaureate degree is conferred summa cum laude, magna cum laude, and cum laude for students achieving honors in the overall program of study at Rutgers University. All degree honors are determined by final cumulative GPA as listed below and are noted on the diploma and final transcript:




GPA Range


Degree Honor






3.850 - 4.000


summa cum laude




3.700 - 3.849


magna cum laude




3.500 - 3.699


cum laude




Note: Averages are not rounded to the next higher number in the calculation of honors.
Students earning the Bachelor of Science in Labor and Employment Relations who achieve overall program honors of summa or magna cum laude will receive white cords from the School of Management and Labor Relations. The School of Arts and Sciences awards the honor cords for Bachelor of Arts students majoring in Human Resource Management and/or Labor Studies and Employment Relations.
 




        For GRADUATE STUDENTS      



Step 1: Submit your degree candidacy form
Submit your Degree Candidacy Form as soon as possible for either May 2024 or August 2024. All graduate students must complete this form to graduate. 

MLER program graduates: Complete and submit the MLER Degree Candidacy Form to Ann Marie Fiorella-Mullen at amf322@smlr.rutgers.edu.  
MHRM program graduates: Complete and submit the MHRM Degree Candidacy Form to Rebecca Tinkham at tinkham@smlr.rutgers.edu. 
Online Professional MHRM program graduates: Contact Allison Kushner at allison.kushner@rutgers.edu for the degree candidacy form. 


Step 2: Apply for your diploma
Don't forget to apply for your diploma as soon as possible. All students must complete this online process to graduate.

SMLR Graduate Student Application Deadline for May 2024 graduates is April 1.
SMLR Graduate Student Application Deadline for August 2024 graduates is August 15.  

Please note: All 2024 Graduates wishing to have their name included in the SMLR Convocation program must apply for their diploma by April 1 regardless of their graduation month.

Step 3: Clear any financial obligations
To learn more about financial holds and loan exit counseling, visit the Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashier Services website. Students will not receive their diploma until all financial holds are cleared.

Information about Honor Awards
All SMLR master’s degree students achieving a 4.000 GPA within their program receive gold cords to adorn their regalia. Students who believe they are eligible for a cord should check their program records with their individual SMLR student counselor. 
 


 





 
 
 

 











Questions about the
SMLR Convocation
Ceremony?
Email 
convocation@smlr.rutgers.edu 

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


