








SMLR Shares Expertise on How the COVID-19 Pandemic is Changing the World of Work | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations

























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Shares Expertise on How the COVID-19 Pandemic is Changing the World of Work

HomeNews & EventsSMLR Shares Expertise on How the COVID-19 Pandemic is Changing the World of Work 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 











Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations faculty and staff are sharing their expertise on the changing nature of work, employment, and labor as affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.

 







Enter a keyword, name, publication, and/or date range to search for SMLR experts in the news.

 






Filter News 







Start date 

Date 





End date 

Date 




 



            Search Keywords...          















 





 




Workers distracted by office chitchat are pretending to be in Zoom meetings to signal to colleagues 'I don't want to talk to you' 

Fortune writes about people who pretend to be in a Zoom meeting in order to look busy or avoid talking to their co-workers, quoting Jessica Methot.


Thursday, March 7, 2024 

      ​Fortune     





'Everybody has eyes on Newton': The teachers strike is over, but more fights are on the horizon 

The Boston Globe talks to Eric Blanc and Rebecca Kolins Givan about the teachers strike in Newton, Massachusetts and the potential for more education strikes in the state.


Saturday, February 3, 2024 

      The Boston Globe     





Workers are unionizing. How should management respond? 

Fortune reports on the growing number of union campaigns. David (DK) Kryscynski says too many employers view organizing as an external threat, rather than a chance to look inward.


Tuesday, January 23, 2024 

      ​Fortune    





The US labor movement had a banner year in 2023 

Jacobin talks to Eric Blanc about the recent surge in labor militancy across the country and what unions must do to reverse decades of declining membership.


Friday, January 5, 2024 

      ​Jacobin    





The unexpected revival of America’s trade unions 

Financial Times reports the unionization rate remains low despite recent high-profile victories. Christopher Hayes says it will take “a lot of stars to line up” to change that.


Wednesday, December 13, 2023 

      Financial Times     





Meet the paid medical actors at Jefferson Health trying to unionize amid budget tightening 

WHYY interviews Todd Vachon of the Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN) about the union organizing effort at Jefferson Health in Philadelphia.


Wednesday, December 13, 2023 

      WHYY    





How we move forward together: Bargaining for the Common Good 

Convergence Magazine publishes an article co-authored by Liz Perlman of AFSCME 3299 and Sandra Jeong Lane of the Center for Innovation in Worker Organization.


Tuesday, December 12, 2023 

      Convergence Magazine    





RWJ nurses come to tentative agreement, legislation in the works 

NJ Spotlight News interviews Rebecca Kolins Givan of the Center for Work and Health about the deal to end the strike at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital.


Monday, December 4, 2023 

      NJ Spotlight News    





3 months later, Princeton Care Center workers still haven't been paid 

The Star-Ledger publishes an op-ed by Michelle Van Noy of the Education and Employment Research Center and Debra Lancaster of the Center for Women and Work.


Sunday, December 3, 2023 

      The Star-Ledger    





New incentives could boost satisfaction with in-person work, but few employers are making changes 

The Associated Press reports many Americans want more control over when they work and how often they report to the office, quoting Bill Castellano.


Monday, November 27, 2023 

      The Associated Press    



Pages1
2
3
4
…
of
46
next
last

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


