








Upcoming Events | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations

























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Upcoming Events

HomeNews & EventsUpcoming Events 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming EventsPast Events

SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 













View all upcoming SMLR events below or select an event type from the drop-down below to filter events by category. 

 






Filter Events 






            Event Type          


All TypesAlumni EventOpen HouseCareer ServicesLectureWebinarStudent Organization EventSchoolwide (Convocation)Program for Disability ResearchNJ/NY Center for Employee OwnershipLabor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)Human Resource Management (HRM)Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER)Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit SharingEducation & Employment Research Center (EERC)Continuing EducationCenter for Work & Health (CWH)Center for Women & Work (CWW)Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and SocietyCenter for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)Center for Global Work & Employment





            Combine fields filter          










 





 



 


 

Virtual Open House - B.S. Programs in Labor Studies and Employment Relations 
Wed, 03/27/2024 -  7:00pm - 8:00pm

      Online    




 


 

The Fair Food Program - New Approaches to Agricultural and Low-Wage Labor  

Please join the School of Environmental and Biological Sciences (SEBS) and the School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) to learn about a new approach to agricultural and low-wage labor with featured guest speaker, Susan L. Marquis, RC'85.

Wed, 3/27/24, 6:00pm - 8:00pm




 


 

HR and Labor Relations Leading Ladies: A Conversation on Women Redefining HR Excellence 

Join SMLR Career Services and RU Inclusive for this virtual panel discussion on women in HR and labor relations as we highlight the experiences and different pathways the panelists have taken to succeed in those areas. The group of elite panelists will discuss their current roles and the impact of each of their positions within their organization and on the fields of HR and labor relations.

Wed, 03/27/2024, 6:30pm-7:30pm

      Online    




 


 

RU LERA: Negotiate Like a Pro 

Welcome to an RU LERA exclusive event! Negotiate like a pro! Join us as SMLR Professor William Dwyer shows you what you could do to be a great negotiator, some tips and tricks when negotiating a salary, or even a brand new car, and take the first steps into becoming a master negotiator! Stick around for a negotiation simulation and put your knowledge to the test while having fun negotiating with your peers!

Thu, 03/28/2024, 6:30pm - 8:00pm



Pages1
2
of
2
next
last

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


