








For Retiring Business Owners of Color, an Exit Strategy That Saves Jobs and Builds Wealth | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Info

HomeNews & EventsSMLR NewsSMLR Info 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 






For Retiring Business Owners of Color, an Exit Strategy That Saves Jobs and Builds Wealth
Wednesday, Mar 09, 2022
 







PISCATAWAY, N.J. (March 9, 2022) – People of color own more than 1.1 million employer businesses in the U.S., but half are nearing retirement and only a third have a succession plan. Coupled with the pandemic’s disproportionate impact on Black and Latino communities, the coming “Silver Tsunami” puts tens of thousands of businesses and millions of jobs at risk.
The NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership at Rutgers University, with support from the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, is rolling-out a nationwide initiative designed to keep these businesses going and prevent harm to local economies. Starting today, Rutgers is offering a free online program that guides business owners through the process of selling to their employees through an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) or a worker cooperative, two proven succession strategies that many business owners overlook or simply have not heard about.

Michael E. Brown founded Michael’s Transportation Service in 1982 to provide school bus, charter bus, shuttle, and limousine service to California’s Bay Area. He sold the company to his employees in 2009 through an employee stock ownership plan.

“The ESOP model creates two bags of gold,” said Michael E. Brown, founder and president of Michael’s Transportation Service, Inc. headquartered in Vallejo, California, a Black-owned business that introduced an ESOP in 2009. “The owner's bag is filled with cash from the business sale to employees. The employee's bag is being filled with the equity from the company's profits. The business owner starts to eliminate the cause of systemic poverty by replacing the traditional business model of exclusion, where the many serve the few, with a 21st-century business model of inclusion.”
In a series of empirical studies, Rutgers researchers found that employee share ownership leads to higher productivity and lower turnover when paired with a supportive corporate culture. Low-income and moderate-income workers can build significant wealth, narrowing the racial and gender wealth gaps. And employment stability does not waver in times of recession: employee-owned companies implemented significantly fewer layoffs and pay cuts than traditional employers in the early months of the pandemic.

Taharka Brothers Ice Cream became a worker cooperative in 2020, joining a growing list of worker-owned companies in Baltimore. Vinny Green (left, atop truck), Kowfi Dorman El, Sean Smeeton, Detric McCoy, and Mike Prokop are co-owners.

“When the pandemic began, we lost 70% of our wholesale accounts, which should have taken the company under,” said Vinny Green, co-owner of Taharka Brothers Ice Cream, a majority Black-owned worker cooperative in Baltimore. “We could have shut down, but the worker-owner mentality makes you take that extra ten steps. We brainstormed different ideas and home delivery was one of them. We developed a system to pull it off and ended-up doing 100 to 200 deliveries a day. Now it’s a permanent part of the business and still running strong.”
The NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership, a unit of the Rutgers Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing, teamed-up with the Democracy at Work Institute to develop the free online program. It enables business owners to learn at their own pace through a series of easy-to-navigate modules, delivered by instructors of color with real-world experience in their subject area. For business owners who decide to move forward with employee ownership after completing the program, Rutgers will connect them with professional associations, service providers, and state employee ownership centers for direct assistance. 
The Employee Ownership Online Education Program covers the following topics:
ESOP

Succession Planning for Business Owners of Color
What is an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)?
How to Finance an ESOP Transaction
Increasing Your ESOP Value
How to Tap into the Benefits of Employee Ownership

Worker Cooperative

What is a Worker Cooperative?
Worker Cooperatives and African American Cooperative Economics: Origin Stories
Using the Cooperative Advantage to Grow
Four Corner Posts of Democratic Management
Governance in Worker Cooperatives
Developing Worker Cooperative Structures: Legal Considerations
Capital for Worker Cooperatives and Other Employee-Owned Businesses

“These strategies help business owners preserve the wealth that they’ve created,” said Professor Bill Castellano, executive director of the NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership at Rutgers University and leader of the team that developed the new program. “That is the biggest challenge facing these firms. Many of them lack business succession options such as selling to a competitor or private equity organization, which some do not prefer anyway. They might want to pass it on to a family member, but often times family members are unable to take over the business. Selling to the employees by becoming an ESOP or worker co-op could be a viable option for many firms. It’s a strategy that preserves wealth, keeps the business going, saves jobs, and prevent harm to the local economy.”
Today’s announcement advances the W.K. Kellogg Foundation’s commitment to supporting groups disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
“Our goal is to achieve long-term, positive outcomes that promote children and families’ well-being,” said Jeanne K. Wardford, program officer at the W.K. Kellogg Foundation. “Employee ownership does just that. Yet too many Black-owned businesses or businesses with majority Black workers don’t know about employee ownership programs. We are proud to support Rutgers’ new online portal because it delivers how-to knowledge on employee ownership to businesses.”
The Foundation’s grant also supports an initiative by the Rutgers Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO) to diversify leadership in the worker justice movement.
Press Contact
Steve Flamisch
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
848.252.9011 (cell)
steve.flamisch@smlr.rutgers.edu
About the School
The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is the world’s leading source of expertise on managing and representing workers, designing effective organizations, and building strong employment relationships. SMLR’s Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing conducts empirical research on share plans, sponsors the leading global fellowship program and academic conferences in the field, and does policy analysis. The Institute also manages a technical assistance center (The NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership) and a program to help college professors teach about these subjects (The Curriculum Library for Employee Ownership).
About the W.K. Kellogg Foundation
The W.K. Kellogg Foundation (WKKF), founded in 1930 as an independent, private foundation by breakfast cereal innovator and entrepreneur Will Keith Kellogg, is among the largest philanthropic foundations in the United States. Guided by the belief that all children should have an equal opportunity to thrive, WKKF works with communities to create conditions for vulnerable children so they can realize their full potential in school, work and life. The Kellogg Foundation is based in Battle Creek, Michigan, and works throughout the United States and internationally, as well as with sovereign tribes. Special attention is paid to priority places where there are high concentrations of poverty and where children face significant barriers to success. WKKF priority places in the U.S. are in Michigan, Mississippi, New Mexico and New Orleans; and internationally, are in Mexico and Haiti. For more information, visit www.wkkf.org.
###

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


