








Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Option | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Option

HomeAcademic ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degrees in Labor & Employment RelationsOnline B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Option 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Bachelor's Degrees in Labor & Employment RelationsOnline B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations OptionOnline B.S. Curriculum
Online B.S. Program Faculty
Online B.S. Frequently Asked Questions
Register for a Virtual Open House

 














 





Join us for a Virtual Open House on Wednesday, March 27 @ 7pm EST
to learn more about the program!

 






 





Program Overview
The Rutgers Online Bachelor of Science in Labor and Employment Relations degree-completion program is designed for individuals who have earned two or more years of college credits. You’ll study how the world of work is changing today and how that affects employees and our society. In the process you will gain expertise relevant to successful employment across a wide variety of fields.  
More and more employers are requiring a bachelor’s degree for advancement within their organization because such a degree signals greater analytical skills and the ability to finish a job. This bachelor’s program is about the changing world of work, and so it will be particularly useful in advancing your career. You’ll have considerable choice in what you study: human behavior in organizations, diversity/inclusion issues, employment law, workplace leadership, collective bargaining, using emotional intelligence, labor history, and/or professional development strategies.
Key Features of our Online Bachelor's Program

 











100% Online Program

 






Top-ranked University

 










Flexible Schedule

 






Terrific Faculty

 










High-Quality Courses
 






Career-smart Choice

 










Fully Online
The program is delivered 100% online and is designed for working professionals enrolled part-time – we encourage you to start with two courses per semester at the beginning and then take more courses if your schedule allows. Full-time study typically consists of four courses per semester. Courses are available year-round and are organized so that you do not need to be online at any particular time, although you do have assignments due each week during the semester.

Flexible Schedule
You’ll have a lot of choice in what to enroll in since we offer approximately 20 different online courses each semester. Degree completion time depends on how many courses you take per semester and how many of your courses transfer to Rutgers to attain the total of 120 credits needed. It is possible to transfer up to 60 credits from a 2-year college, and up to 90 credits from a 4-year college, or a combination of 2 and 4-year colleges you attended previously.  

High-Quality Courses and Major
All our online courses are equivalent in quality and learning objectives to the in-person courses that we teach. The curriculum for the Labor and Employment Relations major has been developed to ensure excellence in instructional design. The major consists of four required courses and eight electives.

Top-Ranked University/School
Rutgers University–New Brunswick ranks as the #1 public university in New Jersey and the #1 public university in the northeast, according to U.S. News & World Report. The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations itself ranks among the top 3 schools of its type in the world, along with Cornell University and the London School of Economics.

Terrific Faculty 
Our faculty consists of leading scholars and professionals in the field of labor and employment relations. Faculty come from the disciplines of law, sociology, economics, history, business, and psychology, as well as employment relations. The expertise is diverse and they are complemented by working professionals who help them provide an exceptional online learning experience. Courses allow you to interact with faculty and network with other students, along with opportunities to apply knowledge to real-world work situations. 

A Career-Smart Choice 
This bachelor’s degree will position you to advance directly in your chosen field or to switch careers. Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations has its own career center with a staff of dedicated professionals who offer job search resources and career counseling services. The degree will also position you to continue on to law school, to earn an MBA, or to attend another type of graduate program.

Questions?
Complete the form below to receive more information about the Online Bachelor’s in Labor and Employment Relations program. We look forward to answering your questions!


 










Request A Virtual Appointment Apply Now 





Related Links
SMLR Career Services 
James B. Carey Library
Master's in Labor and Employment Relations
Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) Department

 





Contact Us

Amalia (Amy) Marchitto
Student Counselor
Email
848-932-8559

Anuja Rivera
Student Counselor
Email
848-932-1749

Paula Voos
Director
Email
848-932-1748

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


