








Labor & Employment Relations Programs | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Labor & Employment Relations Programs

HomeContinuing EducationLabor & Employment Relations Programs 




 



  Explore This Section 

Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations ProgramsLabor & Employment Relations Custom Programs

 













The School of Management and Labor Relations delivers programs for individuals and custom programs for organizations to provide critical knowledge and skills to prevent labor disputes, resolve grievances effectively, and engage in productive collective negotiations. 

 





Labor and Employment Law
Learn how the law affects the administrative rules and practices embedded within the collective bargain system, as well as the system itself. This program provides a detailed overview and an indispensable review of key legal issues.

 






        Constitutional Rights and the Workplace      



Instructor: James Cooney, Esq.
Covers the reach of Constitutional protections at the workplace, what is protected and what isn't, including free speech, rights to privacy, whistle-blowing, testing and other issues. Also reviews the implications of the appeal to free speech protections in recent decisions, e.g., Janus v. AFSCME.  
 




        Employment Relationships From Start to Finish      



Instructor: Melanie Lipomanis, Esq.
An overview of state and federal laws that intersect all phases of the employment relationship from pre-hire through termination. Learn the critical points in the employment process where litigation arises, and how to protect the rights of employees, supervisors, and employers.
 




        Leave and Absence Workshop      



Instructor: Rosemarie Cipparulo, Esq., J.D.
This Workshop will explore the various types of protected leave available to workers. The Workshop will provide insight on how to prosecute and defend discipline for absenteeism related charges. It will cover subjects such as: Excessive absenteeism; Abuse of sick time; Granting and extension of leaves of absence; Job abandonment; The right of employers to require proof of illness and confidentiality of such information; Statutory leave protections; Fitness for duty examinations and bargaining leave provisions among other related topics.
 




        Bias, Harassment and Discrimination      



Instructor: Ursula Leo, Esq. J.D.
Federal and New Jersey State laws prohibiting disability, gender, religious and race discrimination, and harassment. Topics include legal definitions of disability; legal requirements of reasonable accommodation; what constitutes disparate gender and race treatment; and issues of concern to union representatives.
 




        Workplace Investigations & Interviews: Overview      



Instructor: Carla Katz, Esq. J.D.
Workplace investigations and interviews as a whole, including an overview of issues and the law related to the field from an experience local union president and accomplished labor lawyer.
 




        Workers' Compensation      



Instructor: John Burton, Esq., PhD
Covers the New Jersey workers' compensation law; which provides cash and medical benefits to those disabled by work-related injuries and diseases. Includes employee coverage, compensable injuries and diseases, ensuring payment, and workers' abilities to sue employers for damages.
 


 





Negotiation, Arbitration and Conflict Resolution

 






        Collective Bargaining and Contract Negotiations      



Instructor: William Dwyer
This class breaks the complex process of negotiation down into easily manageable steps and provides guidance about how to avoid mistakes and reach agreement at the bargaining table.
 




        Getting Ready to Bargain and Win      



Instructor: Don Dileo
Successful negotiators are prepared and ready for anything. This course will describe what individuals and organizations need to do in order to get ready to bargain the best possible contracts. 
 




        Conflict Resolution at the Workplace      



Instructor: Saul Rubinstein
This course looks at different models of labor-management cooperation and surveys ways to reduce dysfunctional conflict at the workplace, in the grievance process, and at the bargaining table.
 




        Grievance Arbitration I: Foundations      



Instructor: Joan Parker
This sequence of two courses is designed to increase the practitoner's skills in preparing and presenting grievance arbitration cases. Students must complete the first class in order to take the second.  
 




        Grievance Arbitration II: Advanced      



Instructor: Joan Parker
Major subjects discussed: preparing for arbitration, the hearing, presenting a case, standards for just cause, evidence, criteria for contract interpretation, remedies, the decision, and different systems
Pre-requisite: Grievance Arbitration I: Foundations
 




        Grievance Mediation      



Instructor: William Dwyer
Grievance mediation is an alternative to more traditional approaches, which often result in win/lose outcomes. Mediation resolves underlying issues, enhances relationships and yields win/win results.
 


 






 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


