








Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN) | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)

HomeContinuing EducationLabor Education Action Research Network (LEARN) 





Request more information Join Our Mailing List 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Continuing EducationLabor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)Courses and Certificate Programs for Individuals
Custom Trainings For Unions and Organizations
Webinars and Public Programs
Research and Reports
LEARN Lessons
White Papers
Newsletters
LEARN Veterans Discount
Mission of LEARN
Who We Are
Contact Us
LEARN In the News
46th UALE Northeast Regional Women's Summer School

 











Empowering People. Transforming Communities. ​

 







LEARN is the educational extension division of the Department of Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) in the Rutgers University School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR). The State of New Jersey established the Institute for Management and Labor Relations in 1947 in order to provide extension services that would both help to foster labor – management cooperation in New Jersey workplaces and educate labor- management representatives and the general public about the advantages of such cooperation as well as the means to achieve it.
Programs that encourage labor-management cooperation have remained central to the mission of SMLR, even after it became a fully-fledged degree-granting “School” at Rutgers University in 1994. But as its degree offerings have grown, the school’s constituent departments, centers and programs have also expanded to encompass other concerns beyond those of its original focus.
LEARN sponsors public programs and activities that reflect this broader focus, disseminating knowledge, skills and ideas that: (a) strengthen the community at work; (b) facilitate its organization on a more democratic basis; and, (c) address unjustified inequalities of power and wealth in the wider society. For more information about LEARN, click on the links in the sidebar to the left of your screen.

 



















Latest Report

The State of Labor in New Jersey, May 2022
LEARN analyzed how the pandemic affected unionization trends in the Garden State.
> Read the news release summary 
> View the complete report

 






 





 For more than 50 years, the Union Leadership Academy (ULA) has provided an outstanding leadership development program for New Jersey union members and leaders. The curriculum is designed to equip emerging leaders with knowledge and effective leadership skills. Many ULA graduates have advanced their leadership position within their unions and communities. Take a class today and become the leader you want to be tomorrow!

 






 





 Collective bargaining plays a vital role in public sector labor and employment relations in New Jersey. The Public Sector Labor Relations Certificate Program provides labor and management representatives with critical knowledge and skills to prevent labor disputes, resolve grievances effectively, and engage in productive collective negotiation.


 






Please “Like” Our New and Improved Facebook Page
We have updated and improved our Facebook page to include interesting reads, information about upcoming programs and courses, fun photos, and links to valuable information. facebook.com/RutgersLEARN
 

 










Request More Information Join Our Mailing List 





Related Links
Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) Department

 





Contact Us

Todd Vachon
Director
 todd.vachon@rutgers.edu 
 

Djar Horn
Labor Education Specialist
 djar.horn@rutgers.edu
 

LaToshia Wells
Program Coordinator
 latoshia@smlr.rutgers.edu
 
Email: learn@work.rutgers.edu
 
Follow us:
 

 






 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


