








The Fair Food Program - New Approaches to Agricultural and Low-Wage Labor | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




The Fair Food Program - New Approaches to Agricultural and Low-Wage Labor 

HomeNews & EventsUpcoming EventsThe Fair Food Program - New Approaches to Agricultural and Low-Wage Labor  




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming EventsPast Events

SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 






The Fair Food Program - New Approaches to Agricultural and Low-Wage Labor 
Wed, 3/27/24, 6:00pm - 8:00pm
 







Please join the School of Environmental and Biological Sciences (SEBS) and the School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) for a collaborative event to learn about a new approach to agricultural and low-wage labor from featured guest speaker, Susan L. Marquis, RC'85.
Date: Wednesday, March 27, 2024
Time: 6:00pm - 8:00pm
Location: Labor Education Center, 50 Labor Center Way, New Brunswick, NJ

 




Click here to register 







> Click here to register

About Our Speaker
Susan L. Marquis, PhD, is the Charles and Marie Robertson Visiting Professor and lecturer at Princeton’s School for Public and International Affairs. As faculty chair for the School’s undergraduate program, she focuses on effecting positive change in our communities through governments, nonprofits, philanthropy, and the private sector.
She has 27 years of senior academic, nonprofit research, consulting, and national security leadership and management experience, with demonstrated effectiveness in strengthening and transforming organizations operationally, financially, and in pursuit of their missions.
From 2008 to 2021, Marquis served as the inaugural Frank and Marcia Carlucci Dean of the Pardee RAND Graduate School, taking on the additional role of Vice President, Innovation at the RAND Corporation in 2012. The school’s Community Partnership program establishes long-term partnerships with community members focused on finding and implementing community-driven solutions and bringing those affected by public policies into policymaking. Her efforts at the school reflect Pardee RAND’s emphasis on the need for systemic change to address long-term issues of equity and social justice.
She also served at the highest levels of the U.S. Navy as Assistant Deputy Chief of Naval Operations and later as acting Deputy Chief of Naval Operations, the first civilian to serve in this three-star, military position.
Marquis has been a thought leader with unusual breadth to include influential works, such as her books, Unconventional Warfare: Rebuilding U.S. Special Operations Forces, and I Am Not A Tractor! How Florida Farmworkers Took on the Fast Food Giants and Won, which discusses the Coalition of Immokalee Workers and the Fair Food Program as new models for agricultural labor and social justice movements. Her presentation will focus on the second of these publications. She is currently working on her next book, examining the role of faith-based organizations in positive social change in the United States.
Early in her career, Marquis managed and promoted Washington, D.C. punk bands and dj’d at the original 9:30 Club. She earned her Ph.D. and Master of Public Policy and International Affairs from Princeton University, School of Public and International Affairs and her BA in History with Highest Honors from Rutgers College.

 
 

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


