








Center for Global Work and Employment | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Center for Global Work and Employment 

HomeFaculty, Research & EngagementCenter for Global Work and Employment  




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Faculty, Research & EngagementCenter for Global Work and EmploymentResearch
Curriculum Innovation
Events
In the News
About the Center

 













Mission
The Center for Global Work and Employment explores the consequences of a deepening global economy for the governance of work through research, curriculum innovation, and public engagement. Learn more about the Center.

Research
Three primary research streams guide our work:
Future of Work. We explore how to build a human-centered future of work, engaging communities of scholars and practitioners around the world.
China’s Rise and Changing Global Employment Relations. We examine China’s impact on global patterns of employment relations and human resource management, focusing on the intersection of industrial relations and international business. 
Comparative Political Economy of Work. We critically engage with contemporary debates about the global knowledge economy, studying the shifting politics and governance of labor, work, and education across industries and countries.  
The Center began a working paper series in 2022 to feature and disseminate pertinent research by affiliated scholars. See the full list of CGWE working papers here.

Curriculum Innovation
The Center supports students’ appreciation of global connections through internationalizing the curriculum, including reframing course offerings through a global lens; providing opportunities for students to study abroad; and deepening connections with top global universities. Learn more.

 



















Upcoming Event
Speaking Up in a Non-Native Tongue: Status, Voice, and Leadership Emergence in Multinational Teams​

Fri, 03/01/2024, 1:00pm - 2:30pm

Join the Center for Global Work and Employment and the Center for a Research Talk by B. Sebastian Reiche, PhD of IESE Business School.
> Learn more and register
To see all upcoming and past CGWE-affiliated events, check out our events page.
 

 






 





Latest Working Paper


Schulze-Cleven, Tobias and Todd E. Vachon. Building the Future of Work Today: A Labor Studies Perspective. CGWE Working Paper 2023.02.
 
> Access the CGWE Working Paper Series


 






 





Call for Papers

Asia Pacific Business Review
The COVID-19 pandemic, de-globalization, and sustainability of global supply chains in the Asia Pacific: Challenges and Opportunities
This call for papers aims to invite both theoretical and empirical studies that investigate and analyze the challenges and opportunities brought about by the pandemic and de-globalization for sustainability of global supply chains in the Asia Pacific region, the responses taken by stakeholders of global supply chains and their impacts on the economic, social, and environmental aspects of supply chain sustainability in the region.
Submission deadline: October 15, 2023.
> Click here for more information about the Call for Papers

Asia Pacific Journal of Human Resources
Situating the Debates on Technologies and Work in the Asia Pacific
In this special issue, we are particularly interested in how the workplace deployment of new technologies is embedded in the unique national and local contexts of the Asia Pacific, and what this social embeddedness means for workers, firms, employment relations, and HRM. Empirical studies that address both managerial and institutional issues within the broader context of technology deployment in the workplace are encouraged. 
Submission deadline: January 31, 2024.
> Click here for more information about the Call for Papers

 






 





Recent Publications
Revaluing Work(ers): Toward a Democratic and Sustainable Future
Edited by Tobias Schulze-Cleven and Todd E. Vachon (Cornell University Press)
This volume presents a labor studies perspective on the future of work, arguing that revaluing work—the efforts and contributions of workers—is crucial to realizing the promises of democracy and improving sustainability. 
> Learn more
Buy the volume at Cornell University Press
 

Imbalance: Germany’s Political Economy after the Social Democratic Century
Edited by Tobias Schulze-Cleven and Sidney A. Rothstein (Routledge)
This book assesses Germany’s political economy after the end of the "social democratic" 20th century to rethink its dominant properties and create new opportunities for using the country as a powerful lens into the evolution of democratic capitalism. 
> Learn more
Buy the volume at Routledge
 

 





Event Highlights

Online Summer Camp Program with Renmin University of China
Rutgers Center for Global Work and Employment organized an Online Summer Camp of Labor Relations and Human Resource Management in collaboration with Rutgers Global for 15 undergraduate students from the School of Labor and Human Resources, Renmin University of China. Held from July 25 to August 19, 2022, the camp consisted of 10 lectures on frontiers of labor and human resources taught by SMLR faculty and 10 lectures of academic English. CGWE organized the first summer camp for Renmin students onsite at Rutgers in 2019, but the program has been suspended in recent years due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The successful experience of the online camp this year may help sustain this program in the future. 

Virtual Talk: Private Regulation of Labor Standards in Global Supply Chains - 2/25/22
Rutgers Center for Global Work and Employment and Rutgers Business School hosted a virtual discussion with Sarosh Kuruvilla (Cornell University) on his recent book “Private Regulation of Labor Standards in Global Supply Chains: Problems, Progress, and Prospects.”
> Learn more
 
 



Climate Change and the Future of Workers: Toward a Just Transition - 12/7/21
New York City LERA and Rutgers Center for Global Work and Employment hosted a virtual panel on climate change and the future of work, with a focus on the importance of including worker and community voices in shaping and implementing transitions to ensure the potential for just outcomes.
> Learn more
 


Revaluing Work(ers) – 2021 LERA Research Volume Book Launch Event - 10/27/21
This LERA research volume edited by SMLR’s Tobias Schulze-Cleven and Todd Vachon explores how we can build a world of work that delivers for workers and addresses systemic crises.  
> Learn more

 


Germany After Merkel: A Roundtable Discussion of the Federal Election Results - 09/29/21
The Center for Global Work and Employment and the Center for European Studies hosted an online roundtable discussion of the German federal election results. 
> Learn more
 


Hybrid Talk: The Evolving Political Economy of Labor in China & Indonesia - 09/15/21
Speaker: William Hurst, Chong Hua Professor of Chinese Development at the University of Cambridge
> Learn more

 


The Need for Effective Leadership in Uncertain Times - 04/13/21
Speaker: Chris Rowley, Professor Emeritus at The Business School, City, University of London
> Learn more
 


Order Overload? Demand Spikes and Labor Violations in Global Supply Chains - 12/18/20
Speaker: Greg Distelhorst, Assistant Professor at the University of Toronto
> Learn more


Preventing Unemployment During COVID-19: Lessons from European "Short-Time" Employment Schemes - 06/18/20
This webinar explores how European countries have used “short-time” employment schemes to buffer economic displacement by allowing companies to apply for publicly sponsored wage replacement as they reduce employees’ work hours (including to zero). 
> Learn more  

 




See more Global Work and Employment events 






 










Request More Information 





Related Links
Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) Department

 





Contact Us

Mingwei Liu 
Director
Email
 

Tobias Schulze-Cleven
Director
Email

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


