








B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations

HomeAcademic ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degrees in Labor & Employment RelationsB.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Undergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degrees in Labor & Employment RelationsB.A. in Labor Studies and Employment RelationsRequirements
Application Essay Guidelines

B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations
Transferring to SMLR
Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Option
Joint Bachelor/Masters Five-Year Program
Minors & Concentrations in LSER
For Current Labor Students
Course Schedule and Syllabi
Course Descriptions
Career Options in Labor
Internships in LSER/LER
Labor Studies Alumni Spotlights
Undergraduate Honors Program
LSER Student Organizations
Scholarships
Learning Objectives

 













Do you want to help change jobs/society for the better while also having a rewarding professional career? 
The Bachelor of Arts program in Labor Studies and Employment Relations is a broad social science major offered jointly from SMLR and the School of Arts and Sciences (SAS). Learn how to manage people well whether you work for a corporation, government, or a community organization. Apply knowledge of current issues like work-life balance or employee rights to your workplace. Participants also have the option to earn a master's degree through SMLR's five-year plan.

 





Requirements
In order to major in this multidisciplinary course of study, students must take 36 credits of Labor Studies & Employment Relations courses with a grade of C or better as part of the total 120 credits required to graduate from Rutgers. These courses must include:

One intro-level course: Either Introduction to Labor Studies (575:100) or Work and Society (575:110)
Perspectives in Labor Studies (575:395) - you must submit a brief essay to enroll in this course.
At least one capstone course or internship
27 credits of Labor Studies electives. In place of 6 of these credits, students may substitute related courses from other departments.


Applying to the program
After being admitted to the Rutgers School of Arts and Sciences, (SAS), students may be conditionally admitted to the labor studies major, if they have a GPA of 2.0 or better, by going to the SAS major/minor sign-up website: mymajor.sas.rutgers.edu. Sign in with your NetID and password and simply, click 578 Labor Studies and Employment Relations as your major/minor.

Advising
As a new major/minor, you are strongly encouraged to email our undergraduate advisors Anuja Rivera at anujab@smlr.rutgers.edu or Amy Marchitto at lobelo@smlr.rutgers.edu to set up an advising appointment so that you take full advantage of the major/minor and we can add you to our department listserv.
Off-campus programs are advised to contact Program Director, Professor Paula Voos by telephone at 848-932-1748 to talk about these issues. Her email is pbvoos@smlr.rutgers.edu, if you need to set up an appointment.

 






Questions?
Complete the form below to receive more information about the Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) programs. We look forward to hearing from you!


 










Request a Virtual Appointment 





Related Links
SMLR Career Services 
James B. Carey Library
Master's in Labor and Employment Relations
Labor Studies and Employment Relations (LSER) Department

 





Contact Us

Amalia (Amy) Marchitto
Student Counselor
Email
848-932-8559

Anuja Rivera
Student Counselor
Email
848-932-1749

Paula Voos
Director
Email
848-932-1748

 






 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


