








Spring 2024 Information for SMLR Students | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Spring 2024 Information for SMLR Students

HomeAbout SMLRSpring 2024 Information for SMLR Students 




 



  Explore This Section 

Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 














 





This page contains SMLR student advising and career services contact information along with university resources and announcements.
Students may experience unique challenges as they progress through their academic careers. Rutgers has a number of resources to assist you. If you need support in one of the following areas, we encourage you to utilize the following resources:

Victim and Mental Health Support
Academic Support
Financial Emergency Support

Requests for emergency assistance support should be directed to the Dean of Students




DEI Training, Resources, and Involvement

Tyler Clementi Center for Diversity Education and Bias Prevention


Diversity Education Network
Rutgers LinkedIn Learning

​How to Engage Meaningfully in Allyship and Anti-Racism



Division of Student Affairs

Center for Social Justice Education

Language Matters Program


LGBT Communities’ Diversity Peer Education


Universitywide Communications and Resources

Messages from Rutgers President Holloway
Information for International Students
Rutgers New Brunswick Essential Information: Current Students

​Academic Support
Diversity, Health and Safety
Financial Aid & Career Centers
Housing, Dining & Transportation
Student Activities




Health and Wellness Information

COVID-19 Vaccine and Policies Webpage - Latest vaccination requirements, university policies, and isolation guidelines for Spring 2024
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) COVID-19 webpage - information on steps to prevent illness, symptoms, and common questions


SMLR Student Advising Resources
Student counselors and career specialists are available to assist you remotely. Student services contacts are listed below for each of SMLR's academic departments. Where there are multiple contacts listed, please refrain from emailing more than one individual with your request or question. 

 






        Human Resource Management Department      



Undergraduate programs:
Ryan Greenbaum, Director
Shuenn “Grace” Tien, Student Counselor 
Joy Montuoro, Student Counselor
In-person MHRM program:
Dave Ferio, Director
Rebecca Tinkham, Student Counselor
Online MHRM program:
Hadi El-Farr, Director 
Allison Kushner, Student Counselor 
 




        Labor Studies and Employment Relations Department      



Undergraduate programs:
Paula Voos, Academic Program Director
Amy Marchitto, Student Counselor
Anuja Rivera, Student Counselor 
Graduate programs:
Francis Ryan, Graduate Director
Ann Marie Fiorella-Mullen, Student Counselor
Admissions info: mleradmissions@smlr.rutgers.edu
 




        Ph.D. Program in Industrial Relations and Human Resources      



Jessica Methot, Director
Danielle Vroom, Senior Program Coordinator 
 
 




        SMLR Library (Carey Library) in the Labor Education Center      



The SMLR Library in the Labor Education Center is open to students, staff and faculty. Please see the Carey Library webpage for hours. For additional information and remote assistance, contact Julie Peters, Library Director.
 




        SMLR Career Services      



Len Garrison, Assistant Dean for Student Services
Jacqueline Maginnis, Career Management Specialist
Mayelin Torres, Career Management Specialist
Teresitia Walters, Career Management Specialist
Note from ​​​​​SMLR Career Services: SMLR Career Services is available to provide virtual career advising. If you would like assistance reviewing your resume, cover letter, internship/job search strategy, or interviewing techniques, please continue to schedule appointments via Handshake. 
 


 





Additional Information for Students

Rutgers Course Registration System (webreg)
University Schedule of Classes
Technology Resources for Students
Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashier Services


 






 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


