








All Work and Low Pay: Latina Immigrants Scraping By | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Info

HomeNews & EventsSMLR NewsSMLR Info 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 






All Work and Low Pay: Latina Immigrants Scraping By
Tuesday, Mar 14, 2023
 







PISCATAWAY, N.J. – Latinas represent 9% of New Jersey’s labor force, filling many essential, frontline roles and contributing to their local economies. But a new report by the Rutgers Center for Women and Work, in partnership with the Latino Action Network Foundation, reveals many Latinas are struggling with low wages, non-existent benefits, no childcare access, and virtually no time or money to do anything other than work and care for their family. 
“These women are doing the work that no one else wants to do, like cleaning homes and working in factories,” said Glenda Gracia-Rivera, a researcher in the Rutgers Center for Women and Work and lead author of the report. “The gender pay gap is well known, but this report goes beyond the numbers to demonstrate what life is really like for Latina immigrants in our state. The findings are frankly alarming.”
New Jersey ranks near the bottom of all states (49th) on pay equity for Latinas, with only California faring worse. Latinas in New Jersey earn, on average, 45 cents for every dollar a non-Hispanic white man earns, totaling just $27,000 to $30,000 per year. Part-time and seasonal workers earn even less. Many Latinas lack affordable housing, childcare, healthcare, mental health services, paid time off, unemployment insurance, and other social safety nets. Compared to second- or third-generation Latinas, immigrants are even harder hit by these deficits.
Rutgers researchers interviewed 69 women who receive services at the Hispanic Women’s Resource Centers to learn more about the lived experiences of Latina immigrants in New Jersey. Based in Asbury Park, Camden, Dover, and Newark, these non-profit HWRC’s provide free community health, education, and employment services to a rapidly growing number of clients. The interviews revealed a pattern of economic and employment challenges. 

Finding Work: With limited professional networks in the U.S., the women often turn to family and friends (48%), their HWRC (20%), or temporary agencies (18%) for job leads. Many settle for low-wage jobs as housecleaners or food service workers.
Facing Barriers: The women cite limited English proficiency (46%), lack of childcare access (30%), immigration status (14%), transportation issues (13%), and racism/discrimination (13%) as the five biggest obstacles to finding a job that pays better. (Percentages do not add to 100% as many women face multiple challenges.)
Scraping By: Most of the women (83%) earn just enough money for basic expenses, though many (38%) are stretching themselves even thinner by sending money to struggling family members in the U.S. or in their home country.
Feeling Sick: Few of the women (7%) have paid time off to care for themselves or a loved one, sometimes going to work sick to avoid losing a day’s pay. Most women (64%) did not know about New Jersey’s earned sick leave and paid family leave policies.
Always Working: Only four of the 69 women have enough time for leisure activities, and only two women have the money to do anything fun. Their lives are a treadmill of going to work, caring for family members, and trying to make ends meet.
Looking Ahead: Many women cite learning English as their #1 personal goal (29%), and some have enrolled in English as a Second Language classes at their HWRC. The women also express hope of owning a home (28%), advancing their education (22%), finding a stable career (20%), and attaining legal status (19%) among other goals.

“This study highlights the important work Hispanic Women’s Resource Centers perform in Latino communities across the state, addressing the wage gap and helping families enter the middle class,” said Jesselly de la Cruz, executive director of the Latino Action Network Foundation. “The case for investing in New Jersey’s Latina women is clear. LANF looks forward to working with Governor Murphy and the Legislature on increasing investment in this critical program so that more New Jersey families can benefit from these community resources.”
The HWRC’s have seen a massive spike in demand, jumping from 209 clients in 2016-17 to 3,309 in 2020-21. They are the Community Affairs and Resource Center in Asbury Park and Lakewood; the Hispanic Family Center of Southern New Jersey in Camden; the Morris County Organization for Hispanic Affairs in Dover; and La Casa de Don Pedro in Newark. The authors recommend that New Jersey expand its support of the centers by:

Establishing new HWRC’s in unserved communities across New Jersey such as Passaic County;
Increasing funding to the existing HWRC’s to expand their menu of services, with a focus on housing, immigration, and legal services; and
Empowering the HWRC’s to provide mental health services to clients, many of whom come to New Jersey with trauma histories, compounded by the challenges in this report.

Press Contact
Steve Flamisch
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
848.252.9011 (cell)
steve.flamisch@smlr.rutgers.edu
About the Report
Una Mano Amiga en Esta País: A Helping Hand in This Country is co-authored by Glenda Gracia-Rivera, Debra Lancaster, and Maria Robles of the Rutgers Center for Women and Work.
About Us
The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is the world’s leading source of expertise on managing and representing workers, designing effective organizations, and building strong employment relationships. 
SMLR’s Center for Women and Work (CWW) engages in research, education, and programming that promotes economic and social equity for women workers, their families, and communities. 
The Latino Action Network Foundation (LANF) is a 501c3 organization dedicated to uniting New Jersey's diverse Latino communities.

###

 

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


