








Welcome to SMLR Career Services | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Welcome to SMLR Career Services

HomeAbout SMLRCareer ServicesWelcome to SMLR Career Services 





Log in to Rutgers Handshake Career Resources & Tip Sheets 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to About SMLRCareer ServicesCareer Services Home
Career Resources & Tip Sheets
Employment Statistics
Upcoming Career Events
Virtual Career Series & Recorded Information Sessions
Virtual Alumni Panel Videos
How to Use Rutgers Handshake
SMLR Mentorship Program
Job Listings
Career Services Staff

 











The SMLR Career Services Office provides comprehensive career development support for all students and alumni of the School of Management and Labor Relations.

 







R U Graduating? Complete the Survey About Your Post-Graduation Plans
If you are a graduating student, please complete the post-graduation survey offered by Rutgers Career Exploration and Success. By completing the survey about your plans after graduation, you have an opportunity to be entered into a raffle to win your choice of a pair of Apple Air Pods or a $100 Amazon Gift Card!

 






About Us
We are dedicated to helping individuals throughout their career journey to help them not only find a job, but develop a meaningful career in the fields of human resources and labor and employment relations.
Our career services staff works with each student and alumna/us to craft an individualized career action plan, and provides helpful advice on achieving professional goals and milestones. We also provide opportunities for professional advancement through employer information sessions, company visits, career fairs, and career-related presentations.

 







Offering Virtual and In-Person Support
SMLR Career Services is available to students and alumni through virtual and in-person career advising.  If you would like assistance reviewing your resume, cover letter, internship/job search strategy, or interviewing techniques, please schedule an appointment via Handshake. If you need assistance with Handshake, please email smlrcareerservices@smlr.rutgers.edu.
 




Career Development Services





Resume and Cover Letter Review
LinkedIn Profile Development
Salary Negotiation
On-Campus Interviewing
Career Counseling
Informational Interviewing




Interviewing Skills and Mock Interviewing
Employer and Alumni Engagement
Information Sessions and Career Development Programming
Job and Internship Search
Mentorship Program 





Alumni Profiles
Where are they now? View the alumni spotlight pages below to learn about SMLR alumni and hear what they have to say about their experiences as a Rutgers SMLR student.

 





Featured Alumni Spotlight


Fil Wojcik, MHRM'18
Manager, HR Business Partner
Brother International
"Having a strong foundation of Human Resources best practices, strategies, and case studies broadened my understanding of the field, and allowed to me to connect “real-world” applications to what I learned at SMLR. I was able to leverage knowledge from several courses to help me in my day-to-day work."

> Read more about our Rutgers MHRM Alumni

 









Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni







Meet Our Alumni




 









View BA HRM Alumni Profiles View BA/BS LER Alumni Profiles 






 


Career Tip Sheets

Visit our Career Resources page for sample templates and tip sheets including:

Sample resume
Sample LinkedIn profile
Interviewing Tips
Graduate School Prep

 

View more 
 





Instagram Takeovers!

Check out our Instagram takeovers where our students and alumni shared a “day in the life” through IG stories.

 





Follow Us on Social

 




        View this profile on Instagram            SMLR Career Services (@smlrcareerservices) • Instagram photos and videos 
 








View MHRM Alumni Profiles View MLER Alumni Profiles 





Location, Location, Location!
Jacqueline Maginnis discusses the advantages of SMLR's location for internship placements & full-time employment opportunities.

 





Employment Statistics


What are the career outcomes for SMLR students after graduation?
Who employs Rutgers SMLR students?
What are the typical starting salaries for SMLR graduates?  
 

Learn more 
 






 






 





 
















Contact Us

Make an appointment via Rutgers Handshake
Email us
If you are an employer or have a specific career inquiry, contact a member of our staff directly


Follow SMLR Career Services:
   

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 



