








Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing

HomeFaculty, Research & EngagementInstitute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Faculty, Research & EngagementInstitute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit SharingThe Shares Laboratory
All Institute Fellows
Announcing Fellows for 2023-2024
Fellowships & Professorships
The Beyster Symposium
Mid-Year Fellows Workshop in Honor of Louis O. Kelso
Rutgers–Oxford Research Symposium
Private Equity & Employee Share Ownership Symposium
In the News
Rutgers - Kellogg Research Project
Working Paper Series
Projects in Progress by Research Fellows
National ESOP Employee Survey
Curriculum Library for Employee Ownership (CLEO)
We the Owners: The Film
Shared Capitalism
Online Coursera Course

 













Mission
The purpose of the Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing is to study the various models that have emerged and will emerge of employee ownership shares and profit shares in the corporation and society of the United States and around the world. The Institute will study approaches that broaden financial participation and inclusion in the economy and business organizations, and allow employees to be fully engaged and share the rewards of their work.  

Initiatives
The Institute studies the incidence, functioning, benefits, and costs of a wide variety of models of employee share ownership and profit sharing. It makes both empirical datasets and qualitative case studies widely available for education and research. Three notable books by Institute scholars are The Citizen’s Share: Reducing Inequality in the 21st Century; Shared Capitalism at Work: Employee Ownership, Profit and Gain Sharing and Broad-based Stock Options; and In The Company of Owners, which is about equity compensation in the 100 hundred high tech start-up corporations that pioneered the Internet. The Institute's Shares Laboratory is the nation’s first academic research initiative dedicated to empirical research employee equity compensation and employee equity ownership in corporations.
The Institute encourages the work of scholars through the J. Robert Beyster Professorship and a national competitive Fellowship Program. The Fellowship Program includes both senior scholars and recognized experts as Faculty Fellows and Mentors, Executive Fellows, and Senior Fellows. View a directory of all Institute Fellows since 2008.
The Institute convenes the two largest scholarly conferences in the country and the world on these issues, The Beyster Symposium and the Mid-Year Workshop in Honor of Louis O. Kelso. The Institute also co-sponsors the international Rutgers–Oxford Research Symposium, offered for the first time in September 2023, and hosts the annual Private Equity & Employee Share Ownership Symposium.
The Institute develops and disseminates educational materials to encourage graduate and undergraduate education at Rutgers and other colleges through the Curriculum Library for Employee Ownership. 
The Institute makes available the film, We The Owners, along with related teaching materials, to assist educators with educational material for students.
The Institute has a NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership that provides technical assistance, executive, professional, and employee education to businesses and individuals exploring employee share ownership. It is affiliated with the non-profit National Center for Employee Ownership.
The institute conducts research on employee ownership. It has recently launched the National ESOP Employee Survey Project that will build a database of about 10,000 employee surveys of ESOP workers in 10-20 companies across the country. ESOP firms of all sizes and industries are invited to participate, and in return will receive an individual report on their company at no cost.
The Institute sponsors a Working Paper Series that is designed to offer new research by Fellows and Guest Scholars at the Institute. These are circulated for discussion and comment on a more timely basis than the review process of typical academic journals. The papers have not undergone a peer review although they have been presented in conferences for initial comment by scholars.
Research Fellows of the institute serve as the Editors and Associate Editors of the academic Journal of Participation and Employee Ownership of Emerald Publishing.

 





New Online Course
Our Share: Employee Ownership as a Wealth Sharing Tool
The Institute has launched its first online course on the Coursera platform. Developed by the Institute’s Director of Education and Collaboration, Adria Scharf, Our Share: Employee Ownership as a Wealth Sharing Tool uses a series of short, engaging videos to introduce the basics of employee share ownership. 
The free course explores what the research shows about how employee ownership can share wealth and profits with employees while making businesses more productive. Students also hear from the founders of two employee-owned companies, who explain why they made their companies employee-owned and the steps involved in the process.  
> Explore the course and enroll

 





Support
The Institute's programs are supported by major grants from the J. Robert Beyster Endowment at Rutgers, Mary Ann Beyster and the Beyster Foundation for Enterprise Development, the Employee Ownership Foundation, the Joseph Cabral Endowment, Carta.com, Citi Community Development, Elias Foundation, Google.org, the W.K. Kellogg Foundation, John Menke of Menke and Associates, the Open Society Foundations, the Abby Rockefeller Endowment, and Wawa Inc.
The original research project that became the basis for the establishment of the Institute's research program, the Shared Capitalism Research Project, was funded jointly by the Rockefeller Foundation and the Russell Sage Foundation. This research is the subject of the book, Shared Capitalism at Work (Cambridge and Chicago: University of Chicago Press and National Bureau of Economic Research, 2011).

 










Curriculum Library for Employee Ownership (CLEO)


CLEO is the largest global online library on employee ownership and includes more than 700 materials (e.g. videos, cases, syllabi, teaching modules, and reading collections) on a broad range of topics on employee ownership.
 

Learn more 
 









We the Owners: The Film


What does it mean to have employee share ownership? In the documentary film We the Owners: Employees Expanding the American Dream, employee owners from New Belgium Brewing, Namasté Solar and DPR Construction answer this important question.
 

Learn more 
 











 










Request More information 





Related Links
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management Department

 





Contact Us

Joseph Blasi
Executive Director
Email

Doug Kruse
Associate Director
Email

Bill Castellano
Associate Director
Email

Adria Scharf
Associate Director
Director of Education and Collaborations
Email

Christopher Michael
Senior Director
Email

 






 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


