








NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership

HomeFaculty, Research & EngagementNJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership 





Explore Resources Join Our Mailing List 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Faculty, Research & EngagementNJ/NY Center for Employee OwnershipAbout Employee Ownership
Advisory Board
Resources
Employee Ownership Online Education Program
Events
In the News
5th Annual Business Conference: Employee Stock Ownership Plans & Equity Compensation

 













About Us
The New Jersey/New York Center for Employee Ownership (NJ/NY CEO) promotes better understanding of the values of employee ownership among business leaders, public officials, employees, members of the media, students, teachers, nonprofit leaders, consumers, and other persons and organizations in New Jersey and New York.

Objectives
The objectives of the NJ/NY CEO are as follows:

Raise awareness. Promote greater awareness of employee ownership as a form of business succession planning among various stakeholders in New Jersey and New York.
Create more employee ownership. Increase the number of new, and percentage ownership of existing employee-owned companies in each state.
Improve New Jersey and New York's economy. Strengthen New Jersey and New York's economy by retaining and expanding the local workforce though employee ownership.


 





 Latest News Release:
For Retiring Business Owners of Color, an Exit Strategy That Saves Jobs and Builds Wealth
SMLR’s NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership introduces a free online program to help retiring entrepreneurs sell the business to their workers.
Wednesday, March 9, 2022

 






 







Employee Ownership Online Education Program 
The NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership, with support of the Kellogg Foundation, has developed a free online educational program to help business owners learn about two strategies for business succession planning:
•  Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
•  A Worker Cooperative
> Learn more and access the free Employee Ownership Online Education Program

 






 







Rutgers NJ/NY CEO - Prudential Report:

Understanding the Opportunities For Employee Ownership Among Minority Veteran-Owned Businesses
> View the report 

 





Organizational Status
The NJ/NY CEO is an affiliate of the National Center for Employee Ownership (NCEO), a 501(c)(3) public benefit corporation, supported by volunteers from among New Jersey and New York ESOP companies, service providers and agencies, educational institutions and other interested parties.

Resources

 










Employee Ownership Webinars


 

Learn more 
 









White Paper Research Spotlight


 

Read More 
 










Center Highlights

 







 
New SMLR Program Helps Minority & Women-Owned Businesses June 19, 2020 


 
Rutgers Program Helps Businesses Create an Ownership Culture December 6, 2018 


 
SMLR Center Aims to Save Jobs Through Employee Ownership October 11, 2017 



 








 

 













Disclaimer of Warranties and Limitation of Liability
Rutgers University makes no warranty, express or implied, and does not assume any legal liability or responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, usefulness, reliability, or timeliness of any documents or information contained on this website or for the suitability, functionality, or operation of this website.

Rutgers University shall not be liable to anyone for any decision made or action taken, or not taken, in reliance on the information found on this website.  Users are advised to do their own independent investigation before relying on or taking/not taking any action based on information found on this website. All information on this web site is subject to change without notice.

Rutgers University does not represent that use of any documents or information on this website would not infringe privately owned rights.

The disclaimer of warranties and limitation of liability provided above shall be interpreted in a manner that, to the extent possible, most closely approximates an absolute disclaimer and waiver of all liability.

 











Related Links
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
Curriculum Library For Employee Ownership (CLEO)

 





Contact Us

Bill Castellano
Executive Director
Email

Jim Terez
Associate Director
Email

Bethany Dennis 
Senior Program Coordinator
Email

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


