








Why Employees Quit and Start Their Own Business | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations





















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




SMLR Info

HomeSMLR Info 




 



  Explore This Section 

 






Why Employees Quit and Start Their Own Business
Monday, Apr 25, 2022
 







PISCATAWAY, N.J. (April 25, 2022) – Some people are just born to be entrepreneurs. Two Rutgers-led studies examine why some employees decide to quit their job and start a small business, even if they have tried and failed in the past.
The first study, published in the Journal of Applied Psychology, identifies four distinct “career shocks” that make employees more likely to strike out on their own. 
“You may have a career plan in the back of your mind, but sometimes it takes a slap in the face to make you go through with it,” said lead author Scott Seibert, a Professor of Human Resource Management in the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations. “Managers should understand the impact of their decisions, especially in this tight labor market, because you never know what will be the last straw for one of your top performers.” 
Surveying 226 people in multiple industries over a six-month span, researchers found workers were significantly more likely to take steps toward starting a business if:

They did not receive an expected raise, or it was lower than they were anticipating;
They took a pay cut;
Their business ideas were ignored or rejected at work; or
Their employer went through a scandal, merger, or other organizational change.

Workers were less likely to explore entrepreneurship if they lost their job. Researchers believe this is due to an erosion of confidence and financial security.
The second study, published in Personnel Psychology, reveals what happens when former entrepreneurs go to work for a company. They may bring multidimensional skills and knowledge to the role, but they tend to grow bored easily.
“They’re still entrepreneurs at heart and they sometimes feel like misfits in a salaried job,” said lead author Jie (Jasmine) Feng, an Associate Professor of Human Resource Management in the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations. “This entrepreneurial identity makes them more likely to quit and, in some cases, start another business.”
Researchers surveyed 603 workers in 22 Chinese tech companies and found that former entrepreneurs were three times more likely to quit than employees who had never owned a business. The research team then analyzed nearly 40 years of federal data on 12,686 American workers employed in a wide variety of industries and confirmed that former business owners were quicker to jump ship.

 











Scott Seibert

 










Jie (Jasmine) Feng

 










Maria Kraimer

 










What can employers do? The study finds ex-entrepreneurs are more willing to stay in a salaried job if they have greater autonomy and opportunities to use their entrepreneurial skills, such as initiating projects, leading people, and utilizing creativity to develop new ideas, processes, and businesses within organizations. 
Researchers collected the data for both studies prior to the pandemic. While additional research is needed to understand how COVID and “The Great Resignation” affected entrepreneurial identity, Census Bureau data reveal a significant increase in the number of new businesses forming since June 2020. In addition, the latest federal jobs report shows a jump in self-employment, which includes freelancers, gig workers, and small business owners.
“The pandemic was a macro-level ‘career shock’ for millions of Americans,” said Maria Kraimer, a Distinguished Professor of Human Resource Management in the Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations and co-author of the first study. “From what we’re seeing nationally, many workers have responded by striking out on their own.”
Press Contact
Steve Flamisch
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations
848.252.9011 (cell)
steve.flamisch@smlr.rutgers.edu
About the Research
Awakening the Entrepreneur Within: Entrepreneurial Identity Aspiration and the Role of Displacing Work Events by Scott Seibert (Rutgers University), Jordan Nielsen (Purdue University), and Maria Kraimer (Rutgers University) appears in the Journal of Applied Psychology.
Once an Entrepreneur, Always an Entrepreneur? Entrepreneurial Identity, Job Characteristics, and Voluntary Turnover of Former Entrepreneurs in Paid Employment by Jie (Jasmine) Feng (Rutgers University), David Allen (Texas Christian University), and Scott Seibert (Rutgers University) appears in Personnel Psychology.
About the School
The Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is the world’s leading source of expertise on managing and representing workers, designing effective organizations, and building strong employment relationships.
###

 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


