








James B. Carey Library | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




James B. Carey Library

HomeAbout SMLRCarey LibraryJames B. Carey Library 





Rutgers University Libraries Main Rutgers Library Catalog 





 



  Explore This Section 

Return to About SMLRCarey LibraryCarey Library Overview
Collections
Research Tools
Student Services
Faculty Services
The Carey Library Research Minute

 
















On This Day in Labor History:



March 22, 1995:

Japanese phone workers strike to protest down-sizing, piece-work. 
 



 











        Monday Hours      



8am - 8pm
 




        Tuesday Hours      



8am - 8pm
 




        Wednesday Hours      



8am - 8pm
 




        Thursday Hours      



8am - 8pm
 




        Friday Hours      



8am - 4pm
 


 




Schedule a Research Consultation Search the Library Catalog Access the New York Times Access the Wall Street Journal Register for a New Brunswick Libraries Workshop 









About Us
The James B. Carey Library, located in the Labor Education Center on Cook Campus, offers information services to the students and faculty of the School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR), the larger Rutgers community, labor relations & HR management professionals, and the working people and employers of New Jersey. We maintain a specialized collection of books, journals, reporting services and databases in industrial relations and human resources.
 
Library Staff
Please contact Library Director Julie Peters at jpeters@smlr.rutgers.edu or 848-932-9608 for questions about research and information services, hours, interlibrary loan, course reserves and circulating materials. 
Andrew Martin, Part-Time Library Assistant
Owen Socher, Part-Time Library Assistant

 










SMLR_Net Listserv
The James B. Carey Library administers the SMLR_Net listserv which shares selected news on labor and employment relations and human resource management. The listserv is sent out once a day at Noon, and includes four current news stories. Below is a sample:

 







 
Older Workers Are Growing in Number and Earning Higher Wages (Pew Research Center) December 15, 2023 


 
Workers Want Unions, But The Latest Data Point to Obstacles in Their Path (Economic Policy Institute) January 24, 2024 


 
The Job Benefit American Workers Want Even More Than A 401(k) Retirement Match (CNBC) December 22, 2023 


Sign-Up to Receive the SMLR_Net Listserv 
 





Information Literacy in the News!
New Jersey Becomes First State To Mandate K-12 Students Learn Information Literacy from Politico (January 2023). 
Gov. Phil Murphy on Wednesday signed legislation, NJ S.B. 588 (22R)/NJ A.B. 4169 (22R), that will make New Jersey the first state to require that K-12 students learn about how information is produced and spread on the internet, critical thinking skills, the difference between facts and opinions and the ethics of creating and sharing information both online and in print.
Would you like to schedule an information literacy session for your course? Contact Julie Peters for more information.
 
 

 












NJ Dept. of Labor and Workforce Development
 

 NJ.GOV/LABOR 

 








 



Occupational Outlook Handbook
 

 BLS.GOV 

 






 











Contact Us

Julie Peters
Library Director
Email

 








 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


