








Scholarships | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations

























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Scholarships

HomeAcademic ProgramsUndergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degree in Human Resource ManagementScholarships 




 



  Explore This Section 

Return to Undergraduate ProgramsBachelor's Degree in Human Resource ManagementNew HRM Program Requirements
How to Declare the HRM Major
Course Descriptions
Course Schedule and Syllabi
HRM Minor
Careers in HRM
SMLR Learning Objectives
Internships and Independent Study in Human Resources
Departmental Honors
Master's Advantage Plan (MAP)
FAQs
Scholarships
HRM Undergraduate Faculty
HRM Undergraduate Alumni Spotlights
RU SHRM Undergraduate Chapter

 











HRM Undergraduate Scholarships

 







Scholarships and awards available to Human Resource Management undergraduate students are listed below. Please email your student counselor if you are interested in applying to be considered for a scholarship or fellowship.
*Limited funding available*

To search opportunities available for the current academic year, enter general dates of September 1 through May 31. Enter keywords such as "merit" or "need-based" to identify scholarships in that category.

 






Filter News 







Start date 

Date 





End date 

Date 




 



            Search Keywords...          















 





 




Marilyn Marolda Steiner Endowed Scholarship 

Recipients are to be selected among full-time or part-time undergraduate students based on academic merit as determined by the Program Administrator, financial need as determined by the Office of Financial Aid and University rules in effect on the date of the award. First preference will be given for students enrolled at both SMLR and Douglass Residential College. lf the first preference cannot be fulfilled, the scholarship will be available to any undergraduate SMLR student.
Current as of:


Thursday, June 1, 2023 





Natalie Woerthmann Memorial Scholarship 

The purpose of this fund is to establish a scholarship based on the criteria set forth below in memory of Natalie Woerthmann, Director of Human Resources at Publicis Health who passed away in 2017. Natalie was a passionate supporter of the practice of human resource management, with a deep connection to Rutgers SMLR. She actively attended its career fairs and advocated for its students. This scholarship celebrates Natalie’s purpose for inspiring and educating the next generation of HR leaders and also affirms Publicis Health’s dedication and appreciation for human resources personnel as business partners.
Qualified students must be enrolled as full-time undergraduate sophomores or juniors in the HRM Department of SMLR with a GPA of 3.0 or higher. Contingent upon COVID circumstances, recipients will qualify to be first priority among candidates for student programming at Publicis Health. Awards are not renewable. A demonstrated interest in the health field would be appreciated but is not a requirement for consideration.
Special considerations: sophomores and juniors
Current as of:


Monday, May 1, 2023 





Pamela Sue Schmidt Student Award for Outstanding Service to the Community 

Pamela Sue Schmidt was a bright and energetic undergraduate at the School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) whose life was tragically cut short on March 13, 2011 at the age of just 22. Pamela was set to graduate that May with a joint B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations and Psychology. She was very excited to have been accepted into the School's top-ranked MHRM program. In her brief life, Pamela touched the lives of hundreds of people, always seeking ways to bring together family and friends and to assist others in need; she took particular joy in finding scholarships to help fellow students.  SMLR proudly established the Pamela Sue Schmidt Student Award for Outstanding Service to the Community to recognize and remember Pamela's legacy.
This award is given annually to the SMLR undergraduate who has had the most positive impact on the community either within the School, across Rutgers, or outside the University, so that they may continue their studies at SMLR.  Scholarships are open to full-time or part-time undergraduate students enrolled in SMLR.
Special considerations: Student who has had a positive impact on the community within SMLR, across Rutgers, or outside the University
Current as of:


Monday, May 1, 2023 





David Waldman Memorial Scholarship 

For current undergraduate HRM students
The scholarship was established through the generosity of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, in support of students at the Rutgers University School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR). The award is one the important ways they are honoring the memory of their colleague and friend, David Waldman. The scholarship will be awarded annually to two undergraduates in the Human Resource Management program. The scholarship awards will be given to students whose academic achievement, financial need, and potential to advance David’s philosophy around human relations and passion for creating high-performing organizational cultures.
Current as of:


Monday, May 1, 2023 



 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


