








Celebrating Women's History Month | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Celebrating Women's History Month

HomeAbout SMLRDiversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLRCelebrating Women's History Month 




 



  Explore This Section 

Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLRCelebrating Women's History Month
SMLR Celebrates Black History Month
SMLR's DEI Strategic Plan
SMLR's DEI Committee
Diversity Program & Courses for Students
Teaching Resources for Faculty

SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 














The School of Management and Labor Relations is pleased to share the following resources and activities in celebration of Women's History Month! 
Scroll down this page to learn more about the following:


Film Screening and Conversation - Fight Like Hell: The Testimony of Mother Jones


LEARN Lessons Video 

HR and Labor Relations Leading Ladies: A Conversation on Women Redefining HR Excellence - Virtual Panel Discussion
The Struggle Continues: The Triangle Shirtwaist Fire Legacy and Worker Activism Today - Panel Discussion
"A Third of Your Life" SMLR Podcast Episodes


 






Film Screening and Conversation -
Fight Like Hell: The Testimony of Mother Jones
Tuesday, March 5, 5:30pm - 7:30pm
Hybrid Event
Labor Education Center, 50 Labor Center Way, New Brunswick, NJ
Click here to register for guest parking at the Labor Education Center.
Attend Virtually: Click here to log on via Zoom
Join Rutgers LEARN for a film screening and conversation with author and actor Kaiulani Lee on her new film, "Fight Like Hell: The Testimony of Mother Jones." 
Meet and greet to follow the screening!

 






        About Mother Jones      



We were never supposed to know her name. She was a poor Irish immigrant who survived famine and war, fire and plague. Unable to save her husband or their four small children, she dedicated her life to saving working families everywhere. The robber barons called her “the most dangerous woman in America,” but workers called her “Mother Jones.”
Upton Sinclair said of her, “she had force, she had wit, she had the fire of indignation; she was the walking wrath of god.” Mother Jones said of herself “I’m not a humanitarian, I’m a hellraiser.” Most famously, she told her followers to, “pray for the Dead and fight like hell for the living.” She educated, agitated, and organized the dispossessed and showed America what it could be.
 




        About the Film      



Drawn from her autobiography, letters, speeches, and interviews, FIGHT LIKE HELL is as bold and forceful as Mother Jones herself. Adapted from Obie Award-winning Actress Kaiulani Lee’s one-woman play “Can’t Scare Me,” FIGHT LIKE HELL was written and performed by Lee and directed by Emmy-nominated and Peabody Award-winning filmmaker Ian Cheney.
55 minutes | SDH Captioned
 


 






 






LEARN Lessons Video 
"LEARN Lessons" is a collection of mini-lectures delivered by various experts on topics of importance to unions, labor relations professionals, health and safety advocates, and others working in the field of work and employment. 
In this latest Rutgers LEARN (Labor Education Action Research Network) video, Associate Professor Danielle Phillips-Cunningham presents “From Secret Trade Societies to Clubs: Early Black Women's Labor Organizing Outside of Labor Unions.”


 






        From Secret Trade Societies to Clubs: Early Black Women's Labor Organizing Outside of Labor Unions      



After emancipation, most Black women were barred from jobs outside of domestic service and sharecropping. These were the two most unregulated and underpaid occupations in the U.S. economy. Black women could not turn to labor unions to improve their working and living conditions. During the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries leaders of most major labor unions refused to tackle racial and gender discrimination in the workplace and larger economy. It was not until 1936 when the American Federation of Labor approved a charter for a domestic workers union. “From Secret Trade Societies to Clubs” explores how Black women demanded labor rights before their recognition in labor unions by building their own institutions and organizations from the 1860s to the 1930s.
 


 






 






HR and Labor Relations Leading Ladies: A Conversation on Women Redefining HR Excellence
Wednesday, March 27, 6:30pm-7:30pm
Virtual Panel on Zoom
Join SMLR Career Services and RU Inclusive for this virtual panel discussion on women in HR and labor relations as we highlight the experiences and different pathways the panelists have taken to succeed in those areas. The group of elite panelists will discuss their current roles and the impact of each of their positions within their organization and on the fields of HR and labor relations.
>Click Here to Register
 
Panelists include:

Quadria Tankard, Program Specialist, New Jersey Department of Transportation
Brittany Spanos, Executive Director of Community Outreach and Diversity Officer, Saint Peter’s Healthcare System

Roxy Mao, AVP, Fixed Income Technology - Front Office Cross Business Analytics & Data Business Intelligence Developer, Jefferies


Jennifer Coronato, Senior Program Manager, HealthSTAR Strategic Engagements



 






 






The Struggle Continues: The Triangle Shirtwaist Fire Legacy and Worker Activism Today - Panel Discussion
Friday, March 29*, Time TBA 
Panel Event
Labor Education Center, 50 Labor Center Way, New Brunswick, NJ
Join us for this event featuring a series of engaging panel discussions including a session with members of the coalition that created the NYC monument paying tribute to the 146 lives lost, mostly women and girls, in the 1911 Triangle Shirtwaist Factory fire and the survivors who lived their legacy going forward. Additional panel topics include using memory and history in our teaching, a conversation with CUNY workers who work in the Triangle building today, and representatives from New Labor and other organizations who contributed to efforts paving the way for the passage of the New Jersey Domestic Workers' Bill of Rights in January 2024.
More information and registration link to follow.
* Scheduling of this event is due to availability of the primary speakers. 


 






 






"A Third of Your Life" SMLR Podcast Episodes 

Our March podcast will feature Assistant Professor Naomi R Williams discussing passage of the New Jersey Domestic Workers’ Bill of Rights Act with Jenifer Garcia Pelaez of New Labor.

Also be sure to check out these prior podcast episodes featuring Associate Professor Danielle Phillips-Cunningham:


Episode 5: A Tower of Strength 
	Learn about Nannie Helen Burroughs, a visionary Black educator, labor leader, and suffragist who founded the National Training School for Women and Girls in 1909.


Episode 10: Quakertown: A Juneteenth Labor and Migration Story, Part 1


Episode 11: Quakertown: A Juneteenth Labor and Migration Story, Part 2
	Formerly enslaved Black Americans established their own community in Denton, Texas in the late 1800s. It grew into a socially vibrant, economically prosperous town. Danielle Phillips-Cunningham talks to Alma Clark and Dianne Randolph about their work to preserve the town’s history and legacy. They discuss multiple women who lived and worked in the community, including Angelina Burr, midwife and first property owner in the town, and Mary Ellen Taylor, who refused to leave her house when Quakertown was demolished.


>Visit the "A Third of Your Life" Podcast webpage to access all episodes

 






 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


