








Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2021 | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations























Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2021

HomeNews & EventsSMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary CommencementCelebrating the SMLR Class of 2021 




 



  Explore This Section 

SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary CommencementCelebrating the SMLR Class of 2023
Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2022
Celebrating the SMLR Class of 2021
Graduate Celebration for the Class of 2020 and 2021

 











Congratulations to the SMLR Class of 2021!

 









School of Management and Labor Relations
Virtual Convocation Celebration
Saturday, May 15, 2021
1:30pm ET premiere

 




View the SMLR Virtual Convocation Website 




DOWNLOAD THE SMLR CONVOCATION PROGRAM 





Links to Convocation Videos on the SMLR YouTube Channel

Bachelor's Convocation Ceremony
Master's Convocation Ceremony

Links to Convocation Videos on the Rutgers Global Youku Channel

Bachelor's Convocation Ceremony
Master's Convocation Ceremony

Not able to access the ceremony videos on either platform? Click here to access a Canvas site available for the Class of 2021.

Other SMLR Class of 2021 Celebration Links

View a Scroll of Names for the SMLR Class of 2021
View Faculty and Staff Shout-outs to the SMLR Class of 2021
View Alumni Messages to the SMLR Class of 2021
Leave a message to the SMLR Class of 2021 on our Kudoboard


 






        SMLR Virtual Convocation - What to Expect      



The SMLR Virtual Convocation consists of a celebration website and video ceremony that will premiere on Saturday, May 15th at 1:30pm EDT. There will be two ceremony links – one for the bachelor's ceremony and one for the master's ceremony, which will allow for individual recognition of the graduates. 
Click here to view our celebration website and choose your ceremony.
The celebration website where the videos are housed also includes links to additional features to celebrate our graduating students. These include: a scrolling list of all SMLR Class of 2021 graduates, video shout-outs from SMLR faculty and staff, and a link to a video with advice from SMLR alumni. There is also a link to a kudoboard where family and friends can post messages to the SMLR Class of 2021.  
Ceremony Premiere
To view the live premiere, we recommend you click on your ceremony link (bachelor’s or master’s) a few minutes prior to 1:30pm EDT so you won’t miss a minute!  (The ceremony videos will be available to view again after they have premiered.)
For anyone wanting to turn the tassel on their cap, it is worn on the right and turned to the left upon graduation.  
What to Expect
For the first 25-35 minutes, your celebration ceremony will feature remarks from Dean Adrienne E. Eaton, SMLR’s two faculty teaching award winners, student speakers, and 2021 SMLR guest speaker, U.S. Department of Labor Women’s Bureau Deputy Director and SMLR alumna Analilia Mejia. You will also be treated to a performance by the Rutgers Glee Club. The remainder of your ceremony will feature recognition of the Class of 2021, which includes a series of graduate slides by academic program.  Graduates will be listed alphabetically within each program, and double majors will appear within their primary program. The bachelor’s degree graduate recognition runs approximately 75 minutes; the master’s degree graduate recognition runs approximately 20 minutes.
 




        Explanation of Convocation and Commencement      



Graduation events are 2-part: School Convocation and University Commencement.
Convocation honors and recognizes the individual graduates and the honors earned from the School of Management and Labor Relations. University Commencement celebrates all members of the Class of 2021 from Rutgers–New Brunswick and Rutgers Biomedical & Health Sciences at one event. It is at University Commencement where President Holloway confers the degrees. The details of University Commencement can be found here: commencement.rutgers.edu.
SMLR’s Virtual Convocation Celebration will recognize and honor all SMLR undergraduate and graduate students earning any of the following degrees in January, May or August 2021:  

Master of Human Resource Management (MHRM)
Master of Labor and Employment Relations (MLER)
Bachelor of Science in Labor and Employment Relations (BS LER)
Bachelor of Arts in Labor Studies and Employment Relations (BA LSER)*
Bachelor of Arts in Human Resource Management (BA HRM)*

*BA degrees are awarded by Rutgers School of Arts and Sciences and are recognized at SMLR’s Convocation.
Undergraduate students who need 12 credits or less to graduate and plan to enroll in the summer 2021 session to complete these credits may be included in SMLR’s Virtual Convocation Celebration as expected August 2021 graduates. Inclusion in the Virtual Convocation and University Commencement celebrations should not be construed as verification of graduation.
 


 





Rutgers University 255th Anniversary Commencement
Sunday, May 16, 2021
2:00pm ET
Visit the University Commencement website
for complete details about this year's virtual celebration.
 

Virtual Convocation Resources

 






        Download a Virtual Invitation to Share with Family and Friends      




Download the digital invitation here
 




        SMLR and University Photobooths      



The SMLR Virtual Photobooth is now available.  You may want to double your picture options with the University’s Virtual Photobooth. You can upload as many pictures as you would like to the Virtual Photobooths, rescale them, and download a copy using as many backgrounds as you like from both sites, so be sure to have fun with this feature! 
 




        Links to SMLR Virtual Convocation Ceremonies - Bachelor's and Master's      



COMING SOON!
Please check back closer to the event for the direct links to view the SMLR convocation ceremony premieres on May 15th!
 
 


 





Information for Undergraduate Students

 






        STEP 1: Check Your Graduation Date      



Please check your graduation date to be sure it accurately reflects your degree completion through Degree Navigator. When you log in, you can see the date at the top right of the page in the box where your name, RUID, and NetID are listed. 
If you need to change your graduation date and are a SMLR student (BS LER), complete this form. If you are a School of Arts and Sciences (SAS) student (BA HRM or BA LSER), please contact your advisor at SAS Advising and Academic Services.  
 




        STEP 2: Apply for Your Diploma      



Don't forget to apply for your diploma as soon as possible for either May 2021 or August 2021. All students must complete this online process to graduate.  Click here to view University deadlines for submission.  
Please note: All 2021 Graduates wishing to have their name included in the SMLR Virtual Convocation must apply for their diploma by April 1 regardless of their graduation month.
 




        STEP 3: Clear any Financial Obligations      



To learn more about financial holds and loan exit counseling, visit the Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashier Services website.
 




        STEP 4: Senior Portraits (Optional)      



Lors Photography is offering Senior Portrait Sessions at three remote off-campus locations in New Jersey (New Brunswick, Mount Laurel, and Toms River). Seniors were sent an email directly from Lors Photography on Monday, January 18th with details and links to book a portrait session. This email was sent to the address on file with the registrar’s office. If you did not receive an email, please send a message to customerservice@lorsstudio.com or call 908-964-3040.
 




        Information about Honor Awards      



Honor cords, pins, and certificates will be mailed to domestic mailing addresses. Please make certain to update your mailing address in Degree Navigator by May 15.
Bachelor students of the Human Resource Management program, Labor Studies and Employment Relations program, and Labor and Employment Relations program who achieve a 3.70 GPA or higher for coursework within their major will be mailed an excellence pin and a certificate upon graduation.
Departmental honors for January and May graduates are determined as of January 15, 2021. Departmental honors for August 2021 graduates will be determined based upon their final transcript GPA. August graduates will not have their honors listed in SMLR’s Convocation Celebration since they will not have been determined in time for publishing.

The baccalaureate degree is conferred summa cum laude, magna cum laude, and cum laude for students achieving honors in the overall program of study at Rutgers University. All degree honors are determined by final cumulative GPA as listed below and are noted on the diploma and final transcript:



GPA Range
Degree Honor




3.850 - 4.000
summa cum laude


3.700 - 3.849
magna cum laude


3.500 - 3.699
cum laude



Note: Averages are not rounded to the next higher number in the calculation of honors.
Bachelor of Science students of the Labor and Employment Relations program achieving overall program honors of summa or magna cum laude will be mailed white cords from the School of Management and Labor Relations. The School of Arts and Sciences awards the honor cords for Bachelor of Arts students of the Human Resource Management and/or Labor Studies and Employment Relations program(s).
 


 






Information for Graduate Students

 






        STEP 1: Submit Your Degree Candidacy Form      



Submit your Degree Candidacy Form as soon as possible for either May 2021 or August 2021. All graduate students must complete this form to graduate. 

MLER program graduates: Complete and submit this MLER Degree Candidacy Form to laborstudies@smlr.rutgers.edu.  
MHRM program graduates:  Complete and submit this MHRM Degree Candidacy Form to Rebecca Tinkhamat tinkham@smlr.rutgers.edu. 
Online Professional MHRM program graduates: Complete and submit this MHRM Degree Candidacy Form to Allison Kushner at allison.kushner@rutgers.edu. 

 




        STEP 2: Apply for your Diploma      



Don't forget to apply for your diploma as soon as possible. All students must complete this online process to graduate.

SMLR Graduate Student Application Deadline for May 2021 graduates is April 1.
SMLR Graduate Student Application Deadline for August 2021 graduates is September 1.  

Please note: All 2021 Graduates wishing to have their name included in the SMLR Virtual Convocation must apply for their diploma by April 1 regardless of their graduation month.
 




        STEP 3: Clear any Financial Obligations      



To learn more about financial holds and loan exit counseling, visit the Student Accounting, Billing, and Cashier Services website.
 




        STEP 4: Graduate Portraits (Optional)       



Lors Photography is offering Graduate Portrait Sessions at three remote off-campus locations in New Jersey (New Brunswick, Mount Laurel, and Toms River). If you are interested in booking a portrait session, please email customerservice@lorsstudio.com or call 908-964-3040.
 




        Information about Honor Awards      



All SMLR master’s degree students achieving a 4.000 GPA throughout their program receive gold cords to adorn their regalia.
Honor cords will be mailed to domestic mailing addresses. Please make certain to update your mailing address in Degree Navigator by May 15.
 
 


 






Additional Opportunities for All Class of 2021 Graduates

 






        Ordering Regalia (Cap and Gown)      



All regalia is purchased through Barnes & Noble and will be shipped directly to you. There is an early bird discount for regalia purchased on or before April 1, 2021. When ordering, please allow a minimum of 3 weeks to receive your regalia. Click here to order your regalia.
Hood Colors:    

MHRM graduates - hood color is DUSK
MLER graduates - hood is PEACOCK (blue)
BS LER graduates (School 37, SMLR) - GOLD trim 
BA LSER and BA HRM graduates (School 01, SAS) - WHITE trim

The tassel of the cap is worn on the right and turned to the left upon graduation.  
 
 




        Post-Graduation Survey from Rutgers Career Exploration and Success      



If you are a graduating student, please complete the post-graduation survey offered by Rutgers Career Exploration and Success. By completing the survey about your plans after graduation, you have an opportunity to be entered into a raffle to win your choice of a pair of Apple Air Pods or a $100 Amazon Gift Card!
 


 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


