








Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs | Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations






















Skip to main content










 








Close

Search form

Search 





 















Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 


Search










Academic Programs
Continuing Education
Faculty, Research & Engagement
News & Events
About SMLR
 



Apply Now
Career Services
Carey Library
Giving
Search Rutgers
rutgers.edu
 






Areas of Study
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D. Program
Online Learning
SMLR Study Abroad Opportunities
Continuing Education
Student Organizations
Scholarships
Apply to SMLR
Course Schedules
For Current Students
SMLR Teaching Excellence Awards
Request Information About SMLR Programs
Rutgers SMLR Spring 2024 Courses
 


Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 


SMLR Core Faculty
SMLR Faculty Areas of Expertise
Areas of Impact
Center for Global Work and Employment
Center for Innovation in Worker Organization (CIWO)
Center for Women & Work (CWW)
Center for the Study of Collaboration in Work and Society
Education & Employment Research Center (EERC)
Institute for the Study of Employee Ownership and Profit Sharing
NJ/NY Center for Employee Ownership
Program for Disability Research
workplace justice lab@RU
 


SMLR News
SMLR Experts In the News
A Third of Your Life Podcast
COVID-19 In the News
DEI In the News
Media Inquiries
Upcoming Events
SMLR Class of 2024 Convocation and 258th Anniversary Commencement
 


Meet the Dean
Contact Us
Faculty and Staff Directory
Dean of Students
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion @ SMLR
SMLR Mission
SMLR's History
The SMLR State Advisory Council
Alumni
Visit SMLR
SMLR Learning Objectives
Carey Library
Career Services
Giving
 
 

 



















 




Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs

HomeContinuing EducationDiversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs 




 



  Explore This Section 

Labor Education Action Research Network (LEARN)
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion Programs
Employee Ownership
Human Resource Management
Labor & Employment Relations Programs
 











Offering technical assistance and training programs on issues of equity, diversity, and inclusion to educators, industry partners, and government agencies.

 







A Customized Approach
Delivered through the Center for Women and Work at the School of Management and Labor Relations, our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs are designed to incorporate custom resources, workshops, activities, and technical assistance to meet the individual needs of our client organizations. We work directly with your staff to customize all aspects of scheduling, content delivery, program implementation, and beyond. 
These Diversity, Equity and Inclusion programs may be offered to any and all client organization staff members. SMLR does not determine which individual staff members of the client’s organization may be eligible to participate and any references to targeted audiences are intended only to indicate the types of individuals who may be most interested in the program.
For more information, please contact:
Glenda Gracia-Rivera, MPA
Director of Professional Development & Training
Center for Women and Work
Email ggrivera@rutgers.edu
848-932-4614

Graduate Certificate Program for Individuals
For individuals looking for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion coursework, the School of Management and Labor Relations offers a 4-course graduate certificate program designed to provide students the tools to help organizations successfully navigate the challenges and opportunities associated with an increasingly diverse workforce. 

>Learn more about the Diversity and Inclusion in the Workplace Certificate Program

Custom Program Topics

 






        Diversity and Inclusion Concepts      



This session explains what “diversity” encompasses in the US and the considerations used in determining the relevant concerns in this country and abroad. We will discuss the changing population demographics and associated effects on workforce and customer/client diversity, as well as the individual and organizational benefits of diversity and
inclusion.
 




        Understanding Implicit Bias      



In this workshop participants will learn about implicit (or unconscious) bias, how it works and where it comes from. We will discuss the impact that implicit bias can have on individuals and institutions and talk about strategies for mitigating bias. Additional topics will include increasing bias literacy and factors that promote more inclusive workplaces.
 




        Micro-Messaging: How the Little Things Make All the Difference      



A research-based workshop that addresses gender and culturally based implicit biases that are manifested through “micromessages,” which includes how looks, gestures, tone of voice, or the framing of feedback shape our culture, our workplaces, and individuals. Participants will learn about the cumulative effect of microaggressions in the workplace, and how to counterbalance them with more affirmative and inclusive language and practices.
 




        The Cultural Competence Continuum      



Cultural competency refers to one’s ability to work effectively across cultures. This workshop is designed to help individuals and organizations take the first step toward creating culturally responsive workplaces by introducing them to the six stages of the cultural competence continuum. Our facilitator(s) will help participants examine specific workplace issues through the lens of this continuum and talk about strategies for increasing individual and organizational cultural competency.
 




        Leadership for Change: Becoming a Change Agent in Your Firm      



This session provides resources and strategies that are designed to increase participants’ knowledge of best practices in transformational leadership and change agency. We will facilitate guided learning experiences that help change agents understand how to build coalitions within groups and between groups, establish areas of common interest, and then begin to move forward as a more cohesive unit.
 


 





Women's Leadership Development

 






        Change Makers: Leadership Development for Mid-Level Executive Women      



The Change Makers program provides participants with tools that enable them to identify barriers for women and act as change agents to promote gender parity and transformational leadership in their workplaces. The modules, delivered by Rutgers faculty members and industry practitioners, are designed to engage cohort members in a broad range of discussions and activities in the following areas:


Exploring Women’s Leadership


Using a Gap Analysis Model to Address Workplace Barriers


Advancing Change Agency and Transformational Leadership


Assessing Workplace Culture


Leading Strategic Change


Intelligent Influence


Leadership in Action – Leadership Panel Discussions


> Learn more about Change Makers
 




        "Level Up!" Leadership Development for Early Career Women      



Early career is the best time for aspiring women leaders to identify and develop the skills needed to map potential pathways and advance to the top – filling gaps in the diverse leadership pipeline. This certificate program is geared towards organizations who want to boost their talent channel by addressing that need at both the individual and organizational level.
> Learn more about Level Up!
 




        Exploring Women’s Leadership      



This module introduces general concepts of leadership development, particularly as they relate to specific challenges women face in their careers. Participants will review skills, strategies and techniques that help lead to personal and professional success, including the role of mentors, sponsors, and advocates. They will begin mapping leadership paths, discuss organizational and societal barriers, and examine the role of women in management.
 




        Women as Negotiators      



The theory of negotiation skills, and perceived success, normally tends to build on masculine traits. The gender-gap gets reflected in several outcomes, from recognition to pay gaps that continue to exist. This session will focus on the basic theory of negotiation, key terminology, and typical pitfalls as well as strategies to avoid them. 
 


 





General Leadership Development

 






        Personal Branding and Networking      



In this workshop participants will learn about building a personal brand to help them advance their careers, ensuring their career goals are in alignment with their brand, and how to network effectively based on their goals. Participants will use various processes, engage in hands on exercises, and will take their approach through the lens of an "intrapreneur".
 




        Overcoming Imposter Syndrome      



The idea of “imposter syndrome” has been making its way into our collective consciousness over the past few years. In this workshop participants will learn about the symptoms of imposter syndrome, who is most likely to be affected by it, how it plays out in the workplace, and strategies for overcoming it.
 




        Social Networks for Career Advancement      



In this session participants will explore the intricacies of social network dynamics and their impact on leadership development. They will learn how to apply the principles of organizational network analysis to leadership roles and career paths, as well as how to take stock of the social capital in their networks.
 




        Effective Communication for Leadership      



This training is designed to introduce the basic elements of effective communication and help participants understand how becoming better listeners can improve their ability to provide constructive feedback in the workplace. The session will integrate small group activities and discussions to keep participants engaged in the process of active listening and demonstrating understanding.
 


 





Workplace Policy Considerations

 






        Work-Life in an Innovation Economy      



This session provides an in-depth look at work-life issues in our hyper-competitive economy through the lens of women leaders. Participants will explore the concepts of work-life “balance”, “conflict” and “integration”, as well as the impact of generational differences on approaches to work-life issues. Lastly, they will explore the role of organizational leaders in supporting work and life.
 




        Solutions for Reducing the Gender Pay Gap      



This workshop is designed to help participants identify factors that contribute to the pay gap and understand how gender pay disparities affect women, families, and communities at large. We will discuss the federal/state laws that govern equal pay, as well as current data trends on the pay gap across various industries. We will also examine strategies to assess compensation practices at their institution and identify resources to help ensure compliance and equity.
 




        Sexual Harassment in the Age of #MeToo      



Participants in this workshop will learn how to define sexual harassment and examine how it enables a harmful work environment, as well as identify risk factors for the most vulnerable populations. Our discussion will focus on how institutional and societal norms/values contribute to positive or negative workplace cultures, thus creating unsafe conditions. We will talk about how to develop strategies for creating a culture that goes beyond compliance starting with upper-level management and creating a lasting effect throughout every level in our institutions.
 


 






 














 
 






  Information For... 



Prospective Students
Current Students
Faculty & Staff
Alumni
Online Learning



Prospective Students







Welcome!
Rutgers School of Management and Labor Relations (SMLR) is renowned across the nation and world for our highly cited and published faculty, prolific research, and excellent student career outcomes. SMLR is the place to study work, organizations, and workforce issues.
Learn from leaders in the world of work, building effective organizations, and the changing employment relationships.

 




Request More Information 







Undergraduate Programs

 




B.A. in Human Resource Management B.A. in Labor Studies and Employment Relations B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations Online B.S. in Labor and Employment Relations 







Graduate Programs

 




Master's in Human Resource Management (MHRM) Online Professional MHRM Master's in Labor and Employment Relations (MLER) Online Professional MLER 



 

Current Students







Resources for SMLR Students
We are so glad to have you as a member of the SMLR community! These links will help you find the resources you need. Our student advisors are available to assist you along your academic journey.

 






Resources for Current Students Course Schedules Scholarships James B. Carey Library 






Class of 2021 Graduation Information SMLR Career Services Student Organizations Dean of Students / Student Advising 



 

Faculty & Staff







Resources for SMLR Faculty & Staff

 




SMLR Faculty & Staff Resources (Canvas Site) SMLR Prospective Funding Information Form SMLR Staff Recognition Form SMLR Professional Development Request Form SMLR Department PCard Request Form SMLR Internal Communications Form 







  

 




Contact SMLR IT Support Faculty & Staff Web Directory 



 

Alumni







Interested In Joining Our Community?
Our alumni association is a community of graduates, practitioners in the fields of labor relations and human resources, and friends who share an affinity with SMLR.


 






Join Our Alumni Network 



 

Online Learning







Achieve your Goals Through Flexible Online Programs
Online learning is perfectly suited for highly motivated, independent students who are seeking the convenience of distance learning. Explore your options through our degree programs, graduate certificate programs, and workshop offerings.

 




SMLR Online Learning 





 

 

 








Visit us on Twitter Visit us on Facebook  Visit us on Instagram Visit us on Youtube 

94 Rockafeller Road
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8054
 
Rutgers is an equal access/equal opportunity institution. Individuals with disabilities are encouraged to direct suggestions, comments, or complaints concerning any accessibility issues with Rutgers websites to accessibility@rutgers.edu or complete the Report Accessibility Barrier / Provide Feedback Form.
 


      Copyright ©2024, Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey.    


 


 
 


